Adepts believed in the macrocosm-microcosm theories of Hermes , that is to say , they believed that processes that affect minerals and other substances could have an effect on the human body ( for example , if one could learn the secret of purifying gold , one could use the technique to purify the human soul ) .	The Philosopher 's Stone is the means ( way ) Alchemists use to achieve ( to succeed in ) transmutation .	0
Adepts believed in the macrocosm-microcosm theories of Hermes , that is to say , they believed that processes that affect minerals and other substances could have an effect on the human body ( for example , if one could learn the secret of purifying gold , one could use the technique to purify the human soul ) .	Alchemy was an important science because it helped create many other sciences that came after it , for example , Chemistry , Physics , Biology , and astronomy .	0
Adepts believed in the macrocosm-microcosm theories of Hermes , that is to say , they believed that processes that affect minerals and other substances could have an effect on the human body ( for example , if one could learn the secret of purifying gold , one could use the technique to purify the human soul ) .	Alchemists not only tried to create gold but they also looked for self-purification ( to separate the pure from the impure with great care ) and enlightenment .	1
They believed in the four elements and the four qualities as described above , and they had a strong tradition of cloaking their written ideas in a labyrinth of coded jargon set with traps to mislead the uninitiated .	Alchemy is a study of the basic elements called fire , water , earth and air .	0
Practical applications of alchemy produced a wide range of contributions to medicine and the physical sciences .	This is the closest a scientist has come to discover the Philosopher 's Stone of the ancient Alchemists .	0
Practical applications of alchemy produced a wide range of contributions to medicine and the physical sciences .	The Philosopher 's Stone is the means ( way ) Alchemists use to achieve ( to succeed in ) transmutation .	0
Practical applications of alchemy produced a wide range of contributions to medicine and the physical sciences .	Alchemy was an important science because it helped create many other sciences that came after it , for example , Chemistry , Physics , Biology , and astronomy .	1
Practical applications of alchemy produced a wide range of contributions to medicine and the physical sciences .	Alchemists not only tried to create gold but they also looked for self-purification ( to separate the pure from the impure with great care ) and enlightenment .	0
One thing is sure though , Indian alchemy like every other Indian science is focused on finding Moksha : perfection , immortality , liberation .	Alchemists not only tried to create gold but they also looked for self-purification ( to separate the pure from the impure with great care ) and enlightenment .	0
As such it focuses its efforts on transmutation of the human body : from mortal to immortal .	Alchemy is a study of the basic elements called fire , water , earth and air .	0
As such it focuses its efforts on transmutation of the human body : from mortal to immortal .	It is the study of transmutation .	1
As such it focuses its efforts on transmutation of the human body : from mortal to immortal .	It was first studied to learn how to change lead into gold .	0
As such it focuses its efforts on transmutation of the human body : from mortal to immortal .	People who studied alchemy were called alchemists .	0
As such it focuses its efforts on transmutation of the human body : from mortal to immortal .	Alchemists in the Middle Ages often tried to make gold using things that were not gold .	0
As such it focuses its efforts on transmutation of the human body : from mortal to immortal .	They also tried to make the Elixir of Life ( which would give the gift of immortality ) .	1
As such it focuses its efforts on transmutation of the human body : from mortal to immortal .	Many times alchemists would use stories and legends to try to veil ( cover up ) how to make gold .	0
He claimed the material substances and procedures were only a projection of the alchemists ' internal state , while the real substance to be transformed was the mind itself .	The psychologist Carl Gustav Jung was interested in this as well but in relation to the soul of man .	0
He claimed the material substances and procedures were only a projection of the alchemists ' internal state , while the real substance to be transformed was the mind itself .	Alchemists are objective ( they deal with external existence ) while psychologists are subjective ( they deal with the inner life of man ) .	0
He claimed the material substances and procedures were only a projection of the alchemists ' internal state , while the real substance to be transformed was the mind itself .	Alchemists deal with the First Matter ( a substance that makes transmutation easy ) while Psychology deals with the mind .	1
He claimed the material substances and procedures were only a projection of the alchemists ' internal state , while the real substance to be transformed was the mind itself .	A famous saying in Alchemy : `` As above , so below '' veils the relationship existing between Alchemy and Psychology .	0
Philosophy - Alexandria acted as a melting pot for philosophies of Pythagoreanism , Platonism , Stoicism and Gnosticism which formed the origin of alchemy 's character .	Alchemy was an important science because it helped create many other sciences that came after it , for example , Chemistry , Physics , Biology , and astronomy .	0
Philosophy - Alexandria acted as a melting pot for philosophies of Pythagoreanism , Platonism , Stoicism and Gnosticism which formed the origin of alchemy 's character .	Alchemists not only tried to create gold but they also looked for self-purification ( to separate the pure from the impure with great care ) and enlightenment .	0
An important example of alchemy 's roots in Greek philosophy , originated by Empedocles and developed by Aristotle , was that all things in the universe were formed from only four elements : earth , air , water , and fire .	Alchemy is a study of the basic elements called fire , water , earth and air .	1
An important example of alchemy 's roots in Greek philosophy , originated by Empedocles and developed by Aristotle , was that all things in the universe were formed from only four elements : earth , air , water , and fire .	It is the study of transmutation .	0
Alchemists developed a framework of theory , terminology , experimental process and basic laboratory techniques that are still recognizable today .	A famous saying in Alchemy : `` As above , so below '' veils the relationship existing between Alchemy and Psychology .	0
Alchemists developed a framework of theory , terminology , experimental process and basic laboratory techniques that are still recognizable today .	Alchemy is not a science any more .	0
Alchemists developed a framework of theory , terminology , experimental process and basic laboratory techniques that are still recognizable today .	Some things that the alchemists learned about were important for other sciences , like chemistry .	1
Alchemists developed a framework of theory , terminology , experimental process and basic laboratory techniques that are still recognizable today .	In 1980 , an American scientist named Glenn Seaborg actually changed a very tiny amount of bismuth into gold with a nuclear reactor .	0
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	Alchemy is a study of the basic elements called fire , water , earth and air .	0
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	It is the study of transmutation .	0
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	It was first studied to learn how to change lead into gold .	1
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	It is similar to chemistry , but much older .	0
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	People who studied alchemy were called alchemists .	0
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	Alchemists in the Middle Ages often tried to make gold using things that were not gold .	0
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	They also tried to make the Elixir of Life ( which would give the gift of immortality ) .	1
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	Many times alchemists would use stories and legends to try to veil ( cover up ) how to make gold .	1
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	The psychologist Carl Gustav Jung was interested in this as well but in relation to the soul of man .	0
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	But it cost much more to transform the energy to do this than the tiny amount of gold was worth .	0
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	This is the closest a scientist has come to discover the Philosopher 's Stone of the ancient Alchemists .	0
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	The Philosopher 's Stone is the means ( way ) Alchemists use to achieve ( to succeed in ) transmutation .	1
The defining objectives of alchemy are varied ; these include the creation of the fabled philosopher 's stone possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver , as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality .	Alchemy was an important science because it helped create many other sciences that came after it , for example , Chemistry , Physics , Biology , and astronomy .	0
But alchemy differs from modern science in the inclusion of Hermetic principles and practices related to mythology , religion , and spirituality .	Alchemists not only tried to create gold but they also looked for self-purification ( to separate the pure from the impure with great care ) and enlightenment .	0
The defining goals of alchemy are often given as the transmutation of common metals into gold ( known as chrysopoeia ) , the creation of a panacea , and the discovery of a universal solvent .	Alchemy is a study of the basic elements called fire , water , earth and air .	0
The defining goals of alchemy are often given as the transmutation of common metals into gold ( known as chrysopoeia ) , the creation of a panacea , and the discovery of a universal solvent .	It is the study of transmutation .	1
The defining goals of alchemy are often given as the transmutation of common metals into gold ( known as chrysopoeia ) , the creation of a panacea , and the discovery of a universal solvent .	It was first studied to learn how to change lead into gold .	1
The defining goals of alchemy are often given as the transmutation of common metals into gold ( known as chrysopoeia ) , the creation of a panacea , and the discovery of a universal solvent .	It is similar to chemistry , but much older .	0
The defining goals of alchemy are often given as the transmutation of common metals into gold ( known as chrysopoeia ) , the creation of a panacea , and the discovery of a universal solvent .	People who studied alchemy were called alchemists .	0
The defining goals of alchemy are often given as the transmutation of common metals into gold ( known as chrysopoeia ) , the creation of a panacea , and the discovery of a universal solvent .	Alchemists in the Middle Ages often tried to make gold using things that were not gold .	1
The defining goals of alchemy are often given as the transmutation of common metals into gold ( known as chrysopoeia ) , the creation of a panacea , and the discovery of a universal solvent .	They also tried to make the Elixir of Life ( which would give the gift of immortality ) .	0
It is a popular belief that alchemists made contributions to the `` chemical '' industries of the day-ore testing and refining , metalworking , production of gunpowder , ink , dyes , paints , cosmetics , leather tanning , ceramics , glass manufacture , preparation of extracts , liquors , and so on ( it seems that the preparation of aqua vitae , the `` water of life '' , was a fairly popular `` experiment '' among European alchemists ) .	A famous saying in Alchemy : `` As above , so below '' veils the relationship existing between Alchemy and Psychology .	0
It is a popular belief that alchemists made contributions to the `` chemical '' industries of the day-ore testing and refining , metalworking , production of gunpowder , ink , dyes , paints , cosmetics , leather tanning , ceramics , glass manufacture , preparation of extracts , liquors , and so on ( it seems that the preparation of aqua vitae , the `` water of life '' , was a fairly popular `` experiment '' among European alchemists ) .	Alchemy is not a science any more .	0
It is a popular belief that alchemists made contributions to the `` chemical '' industries of the day-ore testing and refining , metalworking , production of gunpowder , ink , dyes , paints , cosmetics , leather tanning , ceramics , glass manufacture , preparation of extracts , liquors , and so on ( it seems that the preparation of aqua vitae , the `` water of life '' , was a fairly popular `` experiment '' among European alchemists ) .	Some things that the alchemists learned about were important for other sciences , like chemistry .	1
It is a popular belief that alchemists made contributions to the `` chemical '' industries of the day-ore testing and refining , metalworking , production of gunpowder , ink , dyes , paints , cosmetics , leather tanning , ceramics , glass manufacture , preparation of extracts , liquors , and so on ( it seems that the preparation of aqua vitae , the `` water of life '' , was a fairly popular `` experiment '' among European alchemists ) .	In 1980 , an American scientist named Glenn Seaborg actually changed a very tiny amount of bismuth into gold with a nuclear reactor .	0
Both the transmutation of common metals into gold and the universal panacea symbolized evolution from an imperfect , diseased , corruptible , and ephemeral state towards a perfect , healthy , incorruptible , and everlasting state ; and the philosopher 's stone then represented a mystic key that would make this evolution possible .	But it cost much more to transform the energy to do this than the tiny amount of gold was worth .	0
Both the transmutation of common metals into gold and the universal panacea symbolized evolution from an imperfect , diseased , corruptible , and ephemeral state towards a perfect , healthy , incorruptible , and everlasting state ; and the philosopher 's stone then represented a mystic key that would make this evolution possible .	This is the closest a scientist has come to discover the Philosopher 's Stone of the ancient Alchemists .	0
Both the transmutation of common metals into gold and the universal panacea symbolized evolution from an imperfect , diseased , corruptible , and ephemeral state towards a perfect , healthy , incorruptible , and everlasting state ; and the philosopher 's stone then represented a mystic key that would make this evolution possible .	The Philosopher 's Stone is the means ( way ) Alchemists use to achieve ( to succeed in ) transmutation .	1
Both the transmutation of common metals into gold and the universal panacea symbolized evolution from an imperfect , diseased , corruptible , and ephemeral state towards a perfect , healthy , incorruptible , and everlasting state ; and the philosopher 's stone then represented a mystic key that would make this evolution possible .	Alchemy was an important science because it helped create many other sciences that came after it , for example , Chemistry , Physics , Biology , and astronomy .	0
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	It is the study of transmutation .	0
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	It was first studied to learn how to change lead into gold .	0
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	It is similar to chemistry , but much older .	1
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	People who studied alchemy were called alchemists .	0
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	A famous saying in Alchemy : `` As above , so below '' veils the relationship existing between Alchemy and Psychology .	0
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	Alchemy is not a science any more .	0
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	Some things that the alchemists learned about were important for other sciences , like chemistry .	1
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	In 1980 , an American scientist named Glenn Seaborg actually changed a very tiny amount of bismuth into gold with a nuclear reactor .	0
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	This is the closest a scientist has come to discover the Philosopher 's Stone of the ancient Alchemists .	0
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	The Philosopher 's Stone is the means ( way ) Alchemists use to achieve ( to succeed in ) transmutation .	0
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	Alchemy was an important science because it helped create many other sciences that came after it , for example , Chemistry , Physics , Biology , and astronomy .	1
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	Alchemists not only tried to create gold but they also looked for self-purification ( to separate the pure from the impure with great care ) and enlightenment .	0
In the eyes of a variety of esoteric and Hermetic practitioners , the heart of alchemy is spiritual .	Alchemists not only tried to create gold but they also looked for self-purification ( to separate the pure from the impure with great care ) and enlightenment .	0
Transmutation of lead into gold is presented as an analogy for personal transmutation , purification , and perfection .	Alchemy is a study of the basic elements called fire , water , earth and air .	0
Transmutation of lead into gold is presented as an analogy for personal transmutation , purification , and perfection .	It is the study of transmutation .	1
Transmutation of lead into gold is presented as an analogy for personal transmutation , purification , and perfection .	It was first studied to learn how to change lead into gold .	1
Transmutation of lead into gold is presented as an analogy for personal transmutation , purification , and perfection .	It is similar to chemistry , but much older .	0
Transmutation of lead into gold is presented as an analogy for personal transmutation , purification , and perfection .	The Philosopher 's Stone is the means ( way ) Alchemists use to achieve ( to succeed in ) transmutation .	0
Transmutation of lead into gold is presented as an analogy for personal transmutation , purification , and perfection .	Alchemy was an important science because it helped create many other sciences that came after it , for example , Chemistry , Physics , Biology , and astronomy .	0
Transmutation of lead into gold is presented as an analogy for personal transmutation , purification , and perfection .	Alchemists not only tried to create gold but they also looked for self-purification ( to separate the pure from the impure with great care ) and enlightenment .	1
This approach is often termed ` spiritual ' , ` esoteric ' , or ` internal ' alchemy .	Alchemy is a study of the basic elements called fire , water , earth and air .	0
Applied to the alchemist himself , the twin goal symbolized his evolution from ignorance to enlightenment , and the stone represented a hidden spiritual truth or power that would lead to that goal .	But it cost much more to transform the energy to do this than the tiny amount of gold was worth .	0
Applied to the alchemist himself , the twin goal symbolized his evolution from ignorance to enlightenment , and the stone represented a hidden spiritual truth or power that would lead to that goal .	This is the closest a scientist has come to discover the Philosopher 's Stone of the ancient Alchemists .	0
Applied to the alchemist himself , the twin goal symbolized his evolution from ignorance to enlightenment , and the stone represented a hidden spiritual truth or power that would lead to that goal .	The Philosopher 's Stone is the means ( way ) Alchemists use to achieve ( to succeed in ) transmutation .	1
Applied to the alchemist himself , the twin goal symbolized his evolution from ignorance to enlightenment , and the stone represented a hidden spiritual truth or power that would lead to that goal .	Alchemy was an important science because it helped create many other sciences that came after it , for example , Chemistry , Physics , Biology , and astronomy .	0
Alchemical symbolism has been used by psychologists such as Carl Jung who reexamined alchemical symbolism and theory and presented the inner meaning of alchemical work as a spiritual path .	They also tried to make the Elixir of Life ( which would give the gift of immortality ) .	0
Alchemical symbolism has been used by psychologists such as Carl Jung who reexamined alchemical symbolism and theory and presented the inner meaning of alchemical work as a spiritual path .	Many times alchemists would use stories and legends to try to veil ( cover up ) how to make gold .	0
Alchemical symbolism has been used by psychologists such as Carl Jung who reexamined alchemical symbolism and theory and presented the inner meaning of alchemical work as a spiritual path .	The psychologist Carl Gustav Jung was interested in this as well but in relation to the soul of man .	1
Alchemical symbolism has been used by psychologists such as Carl Jung who reexamined alchemical symbolism and theory and presented the inner meaning of alchemical work as a spiritual path .	Alchemists are objective ( they deal with external existence ) while psychologists are subjective ( they deal with the inner life of man ) .	0
The synthesis of noble metals enjoyed brief popularity in the 20th century when physicists were able to convert platinum atoms into gold atoms via a nuclear reaction .	Alchemy is not a science any more .	0
The synthesis of noble metals enjoyed brief popularity in the 20th century when physicists were able to convert platinum atoms into gold atoms via a nuclear reaction .	Some things that the alchemists learned about were important for other sciences , like chemistry .	0
The synthesis of noble metals enjoyed brief popularity in the 20th century when physicists were able to convert platinum atoms into gold atoms via a nuclear reaction .	In 1980 , an American scientist named Glenn Seaborg actually changed a very tiny amount of bismuth into gold with a nuclear reactor .	1
The synthesis of noble metals enjoyed brief popularity in the 20th century when physicists were able to convert platinum atoms into gold atoms via a nuclear reaction .	But it cost much more to transform the energy to do this than the tiny amount of gold was worth .	0
