Ohio University exited the ALC when the OU Athletics Department decided to drop several sports programs including women 's lacrosse in January 2007 .	University of Michigan .	0
Ohio University exited the ALC when the OU Athletics Department decided to drop several sports programs including women 's lacrosse in January 2007 .	Northwestern University .	0
Ohio University exited the ALC when the OU Athletics Department decided to drop several sports programs including women 's lacrosse in January 2007 .	Ohio State University .	1
Ohio University exited the ALC when the OU Athletics Department decided to drop several sports programs including women 's lacrosse in January 2007 .	Pennsylvania State University .	0
In 2011 it was announced that the conference will add Michigan as the seventh member .	Current members are : University of Florida .	0
In 2011 it was announced that the conference will add Michigan as the seventh member .	Johns Hopkins University .	0
In 2011 it was announced that the conference will add Michigan as the seventh member .	University of Michigan .	1
In 2011 it was announced that the conference will add Michigan as the seventh member .	Northwestern University .	0
Eggs are laid singly under old leaves of Solanaceae : potato especially , but also Physalis and other nightshades .	It will reach a length of about 13 cm ( 5.1 in ) .	0
Most sphingid larvae however , have fairly smooth posterior horns , possibly with a simple curve , either upward or downward .	The horn is now yellow .	0
Most sphingid larvae however , have fairly smooth posterior horns , possibly with a simple curve , either upward or downward .	It points downward .	1
Most sphingid larvae however , have fairly smooth posterior horns , possibly with a simple curve , either upward or downward .	The horn has many little bumps on it .	0
Most sphingid larvae however , have fairly smooth posterior horns , possibly with a simple curve , either upward or downward .	There are no longer any bumps on the body .	0
At that time , the more recent and larger building was deemed structurally irreparable due to dry rot .	In 1922 , it became the house for the first United States ambassador to Ireland .	0
At that time , the more recent and larger building was deemed structurally irreparable due to dry rot .	After the ambassador moved to the Chief Secretary 's Lodge , the Papal nuncio used the building until 1978 when he moved .	0
At that time , the more recent and larger building was deemed structurally irreparable due to dry rot .	In 1978 , the building was in bad shape .	1
At that time , the more recent and larger building was deemed structurally irreparable due to dry rot .	It could not be repaired .	1
At that time , the more recent and larger building was deemed structurally irreparable due to dry rot .	When they started to break down the building , they found the towerhouse inside the bigger building .	0
Aerospace engineers design , test , and supervise the manufacture of aircraft , spacecraft , and missiles .	To work in Aerospace engineering you must learn a lot .	0
Aerospace engineers design , test , and supervise the manufacture of aircraft , spacecraft , and missiles .	This is done depending on what you want to do .	0
Aerospace engineers design , test , and supervise the manufacture of aircraft , spacecraft , and missiles .	Aerospace engineers ( those who design and oversee repair of vehicles ) study at a university or college and must earn a degree .	1
Aerospace engineers design , test , and supervise the manufacture of aircraft , spacecraft , and missiles .	Technicians ( those who repair and construct vehicles ) will do a shorter course and ` on the job ' training .	0
Aerospace Engineering deals with the design , construction , and study of the science behind the forces and physical properties of aircraft , rockets , flying craft , and spacecraft .	Aerospace engineering is a field of engineering that specializes in vehicles that move in fluids .	0
Aerospace Engineering deals with the design , construction , and study of the science behind the forces and physical properties of aircraft , rockets , flying craft , and spacecraft .	This usually means working with airplanes , cars , boats , trains , or spacecrafts .	0
Aerospace Engineering deals with the design , construction , and study of the science behind the forces and physical properties of aircraft , rockets , flying craft , and spacecraft .	To work in Aerospace engineering you must learn a lot .	1
Aerospace Engineering deals with the design , construction , and study of the science behind the forces and physical properties of aircraft , rockets , flying craft , and spacecraft .	This is done depending on what you want to do .	0
The troubled administration of this emperor was perhaps best summed up by Eutropius :	When Valerianus , Governor of Roman Germany , arrived in Italy ) bringing troops to reenforce Gallus , Aemilianus ' troops killed him .	0
The troubled administration of this emperor was perhaps best summed up by Eutropius :	They did not want a civil war and Valerian had a bigger army than Aemilianus .	0
Aerospace engineering is the primary branch of engineering concerned with the design , construction , and science of aircraft and spacecraft .	Aerospace engineering is a field of engineering that specializes in vehicles that move in fluids .	1
Aerospace engineering is the primary branch of engineering concerned with the design , construction , and science of aircraft and spacecraft .	This usually means working with airplanes , cars , boats , trains , or spacecrafts .	1
Aerospace engineering is the primary branch of engineering concerned with the design , construction , and science of aircraft and spacecraft .	To work in Aerospace engineering you must learn a lot .	0
Aerospace engineering may be studied at the advanced diploma , bachelor 's , master 's , and Ph.D. levels in aerospace engineering departments at many universities , and in mechanical engineering departments at others .	To work in Aerospace engineering you must learn a lot .	0
Aerospace engineering may be studied at the advanced diploma , bachelor 's , master 's , and Ph.D. levels in aerospace engineering departments at many universities , and in mechanical engineering departments at others .	This is done depending on what you want to do .	0
Aerospace engineering may be studied at the advanced diploma , bachelor 's , master 's , and Ph.D. levels in aerospace engineering departments at many universities , and in mechanical engineering departments at others .	Aerospace engineers ( those who design and oversee repair of vehicles ) study at a university or college and must earn a degree .	1
Aerospace engineering may be studied at the advanced diploma , bachelor 's , master 's , and Ph.D. levels in aerospace engineering departments at many universities , and in mechanical engineering departments at others .	Technicians ( those who repair and construct vehicles ) will do a shorter course and ` on the job ' training .	0
Rhys Williams - Wales U-21 .	David Carney .	0
Rhys Williams - Wales U-21 .	Shane Lowry .	0
Rhys Williams - Wales U-21 .	Rhys Williams .	1
Rhys Williams - Wales U-21 .	Michael Beauchamp .	0
In 2007 , the festival expanded to include the Faster Than Sound series which highlights experimental and electronic music , and 2010 saw the addition of yet another independent music event , TEDxAldeburgh .	New music is often performed .	0
The first festival was held from the 5 June 1948 to the 13 June 1948 and used the Aldeburgh Jubilee Hall , a few doors away from Britten 's house in Crabbe Street , as its main venue .	There were poetry readings , drama performances , lectures and art exhibitions .	0
The first festival was held from the 5 June 1948 to the 13 June 1948 and used the Aldeburgh Jubilee Hall , a few doors away from Britten 's house in Crabbe Street , as its main venue .	The first festival was mostly held in Aldeburgh Jubilee Hall , a few doors away from Britten 's house in Crabbe Street .	1
The first festival was held from the 5 June 1948 to the 13 June 1948 and used the Aldeburgh Jubilee Hall , a few doors away from Britten 's house in Crabbe Street , as its main venue .	His opera Albert Herring was performed , as well as his St Nicolas Cantata .	0
The first person to explicitly consolidate the principles of Advaita Vedanta was Shankara Bhagavadpada , while the first historical proponent was Gaudapada , the guru of Shankara 's guru Govinda Bhagavatpada .	The Sanskrit word for soul is Atman and the Sanskrit word for God is Brahman .	0
The first person to explicitly consolidate the principles of Advaita Vedanta was Shankara Bhagavadpada , while the first historical proponent was Gaudapada , the guru of Shankara 's guru Govinda Bhagavatpada .	The most famous Hindu philosopher was named Adi Shankara who lived in India more than a thousand years ago .	0
The first person to explicitly consolidate the principles of Advaita Vedanta was Shankara Bhagavadpada , while the first historical proponent was Gaudapada , the guru of Shankara 's guru Govinda Bhagavatpada .	Adi Sankara learned the sacred texts of Hinduism , like Vedas and Upanishads under his teacher Govinda Bhagavadpada and later wrote extensive commentaries of Hindu sacred texts called Upanishads .	1
The first person to explicitly consolidate the principles of Advaita Vedanta was Shankara Bhagavadpada , while the first historical proponent was Gaudapada , the guru of Shankara 's guru Govinda Bhagavatpada .	In these commentaries , he proposed the theory of Advaita , saying that the Upanishad actually teach that the individual soul ( called Atman ) is not different from God ( called Brahman ) .	0
Frühlingslied , Op .	Henselt was known for his beautiful playing of the music of Chopin .	0
Frühlingslied , Op .	He was very good at playing widely spaced arpeggios and could make them sound very smooth ( legato ) even if he was not using the pedal .	0
Frühlingslied , Op .	As a composer he is mostly remembered today for a few of his short works which are often quite sentimental , e.g. Frühlingslied ( Spring Song ) and Si oiseau j' étais ( If I were a bird ) .	1
15 .	Adolf von Henselt ( born Schwabach , Bavaria , May 9 1814 ; died Warmbrunn ( now Cieplice ) , Silesia , October 10 1889 was a German pianist and composer .	0
In 1837 he settled at Breslau , where he had married Rosalie Vogel , but in the following year he migrated to Saint Petersburg , where previous visits had made him persona grata at Court .	He had piano lessons from Hummel in Weimar .	0
In 1837 he settled at Breslau , where he had married Rosalie Vogel , but in the following year he migrated to Saint Petersburg , where previous visits had made him persona grata at Court .	When he was a young man he played in concerts all over Germany .	0
In 1837 he settled at Breslau , where he had married Rosalie Vogel , but in the following year he migrated to Saint Petersburg , where previous visits had made him persona grata at Court .	Then he went to Russia where he was very successful and he settled there to live .	1
In 1837 he settled at Breslau , where he had married Rosalie Vogel , but in the following year he migrated to Saint Petersburg , where previous visits had made him persona grata at Court .	He became pianist at the court of the tsar and taught the tsar 's children how to play the piano .	0
The characteristic of Henselt 's playing was a combination of Franz Liszt 's sonority with Hummel 's smoothness .	He became pianist at the court of the tsar and taught the tsar 's children how to play the piano .	0
The characteristic of Henselt 's playing was a combination of Franz Liszt 's sonority with Hummel 's smoothness .	Henselt was known for his beautiful playing of the music of Chopin .	0
The characteristic of Henselt 's playing was a combination of Franz Liszt 's sonority with Hummel 's smoothness .	He was very good at playing widely spaced arpeggios and could make them sound very smooth ( legato ) even if he was not using the pedal .	1
The characteristic of Henselt 's playing was a combination of Franz Liszt 's sonority with Hummel 's smoothness .	As a composer he is mostly remembered today for a few of his short works which are often quite sentimental , e.g. Frühlingslied ( Spring Song ) and Si oiseau j' étais ( If I were a bird ) .	0
At the age of three he began to learn the violin , and at five the piano under Josepha von Fladt .	As a composer he is mostly remembered today for a few of his short works which are often quite sentimental , e.g. Frühlingslied ( Spring Song ) and Si oiseau j' étais ( If I were a bird ) .	0
On obtaining financial help from King Ludwig I of Bavaria he went to study under Johann Nepomuk Hummel in Weimar for some months , and thence in 1832 to Vienna , where , besides studying composition under Simon Sechter ( the later teacher of Anton Bruckner ) , he made a great success as a concert pianist .	Adolf von Henselt ( born Schwabach , Bavaria , May 9 1814 ; died Warmbrunn ( now Cieplice ) , Silesia , October 10 1889 was a German pianist and composer .	0
On obtaining financial help from King Ludwig I of Bavaria he went to study under Johann Nepomuk Hummel in Weimar for some months , and thence in 1832 to Vienna , where , besides studying composition under Simon Sechter ( the later teacher of Anton Bruckner ) , he made a great success as a concert pianist .	He had piano lessons from Hummel in Weimar .	1
On obtaining financial help from King Ludwig I of Bavaria he went to study under Johann Nepomuk Hummel in Weimar for some months , and thence in 1832 to Vienna , where , besides studying composition under Simon Sechter ( the later teacher of Anton Bruckner ) , he made a great success as a concert pianist .	When he was a young man he played in concerts all over Germany .	0
Felicity Huffman was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actress for playing Bree Osbourne ( a male-to-female transsexual ) in Transamerica .	Voice actors are the people who make the voices for the characters .	0
Felicity Huffman was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actress for playing Bree Osbourne ( a male-to-female transsexual ) in Transamerica .	They may also create the voices used for narration in non-animated works .	0
Adolf von Henselt ( 12 May 1814 - 10 October 1889 ) was a German composer and pianist .	Adolf von Henselt ( born Schwabach , Bavaria , May 9 1814 ; died Warmbrunn ( now Cieplice ) , Silesia , October 10 1889 was a German pianist and composer .	1
Adolf von Henselt ( 12 May 1814 - 10 October 1889 ) was a German composer and pianist .	He had piano lessons from Hummel in Weimar .	0
Adolf von Henselt ( 12 May 1814 - 10 October 1889 ) was a German composer and pianist .	He was very good at playing widely spaced arpeggios and could make them sound very smooth ( legato ) even if he was not using the pedal .	0
Adolf von Henselt ( 12 May 1814 - 10 October 1889 ) was a German composer and pianist .	As a composer he is mostly remembered today for a few of his short works which are often quite sentimental , e.g. Frühlingslied ( Spring Song ) and Si oiseau j' étais ( If I were a bird ) .	0
Henselt was born at Schwabach , in Bavaria .	Adolf von Henselt ( born Schwabach , Bavaria , May 9 1814 ; died Warmbrunn ( now Cieplice ) , Silesia , October 10 1889 was a German pianist and composer .	1
Henselt was born at Schwabach , in Bavaria .	He had piano lessons from Hummel in Weimar .	0
In 1852 and again in 1867 he visited England , though in the latter year he made no public appearance .	He was very good at playing widely spaced arpeggios and could make them sound very smooth ( legato ) even if he was not using the pedal .	0
In 1852 and again in 1867 he visited England , though in the latter year he made no public appearance .	As a composer he is mostly remembered today for a few of his short works which are often quite sentimental , e.g. Frühlingslied ( Spring Song ) and Si oiseau j' étais ( If I were a bird ) .	0
Saint Petersburg was his home practically until his death , which occurred during a stay at Warmbrunn , Germany ( now in Poland ) , due to cardiac disease .	Adolf von Henselt ( born Schwabach , Bavaria , May 9 1814 ; died Warmbrunn ( now Cieplice ) , Silesia , October 10 1889 was a German pianist and composer .	1
Saint Petersburg was his home practically until his death , which occurred during a stay at Warmbrunn , Germany ( now in Poland ) , due to cardiac disease .	He had piano lessons from Hummel in Weimar .	0
Tim Cahill and Robbie Kruse scored the goals for Australia .	Mark Bresciano .	0
Tim Cahill and Robbie Kruse scored the goals for Australia .	Vince Grella .	0
Tim Cahill and Robbie Kruse scored the goals for Australia .	Tim Cahill .	1
Tim Cahill and Robbie Kruse scored the goals for Australia .	Lucas Neill .	0
Angers has an orchestra , ONPL ( Orchestre National des Pays de la Loire ) , shared with Nantes , a local theater NTA ( Nouveau Théatre d'Angers ) and a dance school CNDC ( Centre National de Danse Contemporaine ) .	There are two universities .	0
Angers has an orchestra , ONPL ( Orchestre National des Pays de la Loire ) , shared with Nantes , a local theater NTA ( Nouveau Théatre d'Angers ) and a dance school CNDC ( Centre National de Danse Contemporaine ) .	More than 17,000 students go to the ` Université d'Angers ' ( a state university ) and 12,000 go to the ` Université Catholique de l'Ouest ' ( a private catholic university ) .	0
Anniston is a city in Calhoun County in the state of Alabama .	Anniston is a city in , and county seat of , Calhoun County in the state of Alabama , United States .	1
Anniston is a city in Calhoun County in the state of Alabama .	As of the 2000 census , the population of the city is 24,276 .	0
Sir Andrew was then appointed to the Order of Merit on 11 November 1983 .	Huxley was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society on 17 March 1955 .	0
Sir Andrew was then appointed to the Order of Merit on 11 November 1983 .	He was President of the Royal Society from 1980 to 1985 , and Master of Trinity from 1984-1990 .	0
Sir Andrew was then appointed to the Order of Merit on 11 November 1983 .	He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II on 12 November 1974 , and appointed to the Order of Merit on 11 November 1983 .	1
The experimental measurements on which the pair based their action potential theory represent one of the earliest applications of a technique of electrophysiology known as the voltage clamp .	Sir Andrew Fielding Huxley OM FRS ( 22 November 1917 - 30 May 2012 ) was an English physiologist and biophysicist .	0
Team Germany won it with 128 points , 35 points lead ahead of Team New Zealand .	Switzerland were second with 121 points and A1 Team Great Britain third with 97 points .	0
Team Germany won it with 128 points , 35 points lead ahead of Team New Zealand .	The 2006-07 season started on 1 October 2006 at Circuit Park Zandvoort , and the last race at Brands Hatch on 29 April 2007 .	0
Team Germany won it with 128 points , 35 points lead ahead of Team New Zealand .	Team Germany won it with 128 points , 35 points lead ahead of Team New Zealand .	1
Team Germany won it with 128 points , 35 points lead ahead of Team New Zealand .	The 2008-09 season saw the new Powered by Ferrari A1GP car .	0
The opening round of the season , scheduled as part of the already well established Nikon SuperGP race meeting , was canceled five days before practice was due to begin .	Team Germany won it with 128 points , 35 points lead ahead of Team New Zealand .	0
The opening round of the season , scheduled as part of the already well established Nikon SuperGP race meeting , was canceled five days before practice was due to begin .	The 2008-09 season saw the new Powered by Ferrari A1GP car .	0
The opening round of the season , scheduled as part of the already well established Nikon SuperGP race meeting , was canceled five days before practice was due to begin .	The opening of the 2009-10 season was canceled five days before practice was due to begin .	1
The opening round of the season , scheduled as part of the already well established Nikon SuperGP race meeting , was canceled five days before practice was due to begin .	Due to the series ' financial problems , none of the scheduled races take place .	0
Nelson Piquet , Jr. won the inaugural race of the series for A1 Team Brazil .	Eash round was two races in a weekend .	0
Nelson Piquet , Jr. won the inaugural race of the series for A1 Team Brazil .	The Curitiba , Brazil in January 2006 was canceled .	0
Nelson Piquet , Jr. won the inaugural race of the series for A1 Team Brazil .	Nelson Piquet , Jr. won the inaugural race of the series for A1 Team Brazil .	1
Nelson Piquet , Jr. won the inaugural race of the series for A1 Team Brazil .	A1 Team France were crowned the first-ever A1 Grand Prix world champions with 172 points .	0
This put an end to the hopes the season would start and also put the future of the series in doubt .	The last race that was to be held in the season was the Dutch round .	0
This put an end to the hopes the season would start and also put the future of the series in doubt .	That race was change to a Superleague Formula race .	0
This put an end to the hopes the season would start and also put the future of the series in doubt .	This ended the hopes the season would start and also put the future of the series in doubt .	1
A1 Grand Prix used a unique qualifying format , which began at 14:00 local time on the Saturday of the race weekend , to determine the grid lineup for Sunday 's races , the Sprint Race and the Main Race .	A1 Grand Prix ( A1GP ) was a ` single make ' open wheel car auto racing series .	0
A1 Grand Prix ( A1GP ) was a ` single make ' open-wheel auto racing series .	This ended the hopes the season would start and also put the future of the series in doubt .	0
It was unique in its field in that competitors solely represented their nation as opposed to themselves or a team , the usual format in most formula racing series .	A1 Grand Prix ( A1GP ) was a ` single make ' open wheel car auto racing series .	0
It was unique in its field in that competitors solely represented their nation as opposed to themselves or a team , the usual format in most formula racing series .	It was different from most racing series .	1
It was unique in its field in that competitors solely represented their nation as opposed to themselves or a team , the usual format in most formula racing series .	The drivers represented their nation as opposed to themselves or a team .	1
It was unique in its field in that competitors solely represented their nation as opposed to themselves or a team , the usual format in most formula racing series .	The series was ratified by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile ( FIA ) .	0
The first season was planned for 12 rounds ( 24 races , with two each weekend ) ; however the cancellation of a race scheduled for Curitiba , Brazil in January 2006 reduced this number to 11 .	It began on 25 September 2005 .	0
The first season was planned for 12 rounds ( 24 races , with two each weekend ) ; however the cancellation of a race scheduled for Curitiba , Brazil in January 2006 reduced this number to 11 .	The first race was the A1 Grand Prix of Nations Great Britain at the Brands Hatch circuit in the United Kingdom .	0
The first season was planned for 12 rounds ( 24 races , with two each weekend ) ; however the cancellation of a race scheduled for Curitiba , Brazil in January 2006 reduced this number to 11 .	The first season was planned for 12 rounds .	1
The first season was planned for 12 rounds ( 24 races , with two each weekend ) ; however the cancellation of a race scheduled for Curitiba , Brazil in January 2006 reduced this number to 11 .	Eash round was two races in a weekend .	1
The first season was planned for 12 rounds ( 24 races , with two each weekend ) ; however the cancellation of a race scheduled for Curitiba , Brazil in January 2006 reduced this number to 11 .	The Curitiba , Brazil in January 2006 was canceled .	1
The first season was planned for 12 rounds ( 24 races , with two each weekend ) ; however the cancellation of a race scheduled for Curitiba , Brazil in January 2006 reduced this number to 11 .	Nelson Piquet , Jr. won the inaugural race of the series for A1 Team Brazil .	0
At the final race of the season in Shanghai , A1 Team France were crowned the first-ever A1 Grand Prix world champions with 172 points .	The Curitiba , Brazil in January 2006 was canceled .	0
At the final race of the season in Shanghai , A1 Team France were crowned the first-ever A1 Grand Prix world champions with 172 points .	Nelson Piquet , Jr. won the inaugural race of the series for A1 Team Brazil .	0
At the final race of the season in Shanghai , A1 Team France were crowned the first-ever A1 Grand Prix world champions with 172 points .	A1 Team France were crowned the first-ever A1 Grand Prix world champions with 172 points .	1
At the final race of the season in Shanghai , A1 Team France were crowned the first-ever A1 Grand Prix world champions with 172 points .	Switzerland were second with 121 points and A1 Team Great Britain third with 97 points .	0
The last race that was to be held in the season , the Dutch round , was switched for Superleague Formula .	More races were canceled .	0
The last race that was to be held in the season , the Dutch round , was switched for Superleague Formula .	An announcement made on 5 November 2009 stating that the races in China and Malaysia would not be taking place .	0
The last race that was to be held in the season , the Dutch round , was switched for Superleague Formula .	The last race that was to be held in the season was the Dutch round .	1
The last race that was to be held in the season , the Dutch round , was switched for Superleague Formula .	That race was change to a Superleague Formula race .	1
The last race that was to be held in the season , the Dutch round , was switched for Superleague Formula .	This ended the hopes the season would start and also put the future of the series in doubt .	0
Tony Teixeira took control of the series in 2006 , leading it to liquidation by 2009 .	Races were held in the traditional Formula One off-season , winter the northern hemisphere .	0
Tony Teixeira took control of the series in 2006 , leading it to liquidation by 2009 .	The seeries was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai in 2003 .	0
Tony Teixeira took control of the series in 2006 , leading it to liquidation by 2009 .	Tony Teixeira took control of the series in 2006 , leading it to liquidation by 2009 .	1
Tony Teixeira took control of the series in 2006 , leading it to liquidation by 2009 .	The concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai in 2003 .	0
Once the series had received the backing of the FIA , a management structure including new executive directors Brian Menell and Tony Teixeira were appointed to oversee the sale of franchises for the operation of international teams .	Tony Teixeira took control of the series in 2006 , leading it to liquidation by 2009 .	0
Once the series had received the backing of the FIA , a management structure including new executive directors Brian Menell and Tony Teixeira were appointed to oversee the sale of franchises for the operation of international teams .	The concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai in 2003 .	0
Once the series had received the backing of the FIA , a management structure including new executive directors Brian Menell and Tony Teixeira were appointed to oversee the sale of franchises for the operation of international teams .	Brian Menell and Tony Teixeira were appointed to run the sale of franchises .	1
Once the series had received the backing of the FIA , a management structure including new executive directors Brian Menell and Tony Teixeira were appointed to oversee the sale of franchises for the operation of international teams .	Thirty franchises were made available .	0
The 2008-09 season was the first season in which the new `` Powered by Ferrari '' A1GP car was used .	The 2006-07 season started on 1 October 2006 at Circuit Park Zandvoort , and the last race at Brands Hatch on 29 April 2007 .	0
The 2008-09 season was the first season in which the new `` Powered by Ferrari '' A1GP car was used .	Team Germany won it with 128 points , 35 points lead ahead of Team New Zealand .	0
The 2008-09 season was the first season in which the new `` Powered by Ferrari '' A1GP car was used .	The 2008-09 season saw the new Powered by Ferrari A1GP car .	1
The 2008-09 season was the first season in which the new `` Powered by Ferrari '' A1GP car was used .	The opening of the 2009-10 season was canceled five days before practice was due to begin .	0
With cars and series infrastructure still tied up in London and no comment forthcoming from A1GP , organisers in Australia were forced to announce the series would not appear at what had been a high profile addition to the A1 Grand Prix calendar .	The opening of the 2009-10 season was canceled five days before practice was due to begin .	0
With cars and series infrastructure still tied up in London and no comment forthcoming from A1GP , organisers in Australia were forced to announce the series would not appear at what had been a high profile addition to the A1 Grand Prix calendar .	Due to the series ' financial problems , none of the scheduled races take place .	0
With cars and series infrastructure still tied up in London and no comment forthcoming from A1GP , organisers in Australia were forced to announce the series would not appear at what had been a high profile addition to the A1 Grand Prix calendar .	The cars and series infrastructure were tied up in London .	1
With cars and series infrastructure still tied up in London and no comment forthcoming from A1GP , organisers in Australia were forced to announce the series would not appear at what had been a high profile addition to the A1 Grand Prix calendar .	No comment was coming from A1GP .	1
With cars and series infrastructure still tied up in London and no comment forthcoming from A1GP , organisers in Australia were forced to announce the series would not appear at what had been a high profile addition to the A1 Grand Prix calendar .	More races were canceled .	0
Thirty franchises were made available ; twenty-three of them were restricted to specified nations , while the other seven were opened to tender for nations that had not been initially targeted .	The concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai in 2003 .	0
Thirty franchises were made available ; twenty-three of them were restricted to specified nations , while the other seven were opened to tender for nations that had not been initially targeted .	Brian Menell and Tony Teixeira were appointed to run the sale of franchises .	0
Thirty franchises were made available ; twenty-three of them were restricted to specified nations , while the other seven were opened to tender for nations that had not been initially targeted .	Thirty franchises were made available .	1
Thirty franchises were made available ; twenty-three of them were restricted to specified nations , while the other seven were opened to tender for nations that had not been initially targeted .	Twenty-five of the franchises were purchased for the 2005-06 A1 Grand Prix season .	0
Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality .	2003-present ACF Fiorentina .	0
Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality .	Fiorentina is known by the nickname La viola ; a reference to their distinctive purple colors .	0
A1 Grand Prix ( A1GP ) was a ` single make ' open-wheel auto racing series .	A1 Grand Prix ( A1GP ) was a ` single make ' open wheel car auto racing series .	1
A1 Grand Prix ( A1GP ) was a ` single make ' open-wheel auto racing series .	It was different from most racing series .	0
Switzerland were second with 121 points and A1 Team Great Britain third with 97 points .	Nelson Piquet , Jr. won the inaugural race of the series for A1 Team Brazil .	0
Switzerland were second with 121 points and A1 Team Great Britain third with 97 points .	A1 Team France were crowned the first-ever A1 Grand Prix world champions with 172 points .	0
Switzerland were second with 121 points and A1 Team Great Britain third with 97 points .	Switzerland were second with 121 points and A1 Team Great Britain third with 97 points .	1
Switzerland were second with 121 points and A1 Team Great Britain third with 97 points .	The 2006-07 season started on 1 October 2006 at Circuit Park Zandvoort , and the last race at Brands Hatch on 29 April 2007 .	0
Twenty-five of the franchises were purchased in time for the 2005-06 A1 Grand Prix season , which began on 25 September 2005 with the A1 Grand Prix of Nations Great Britain at the Brands Hatch circuit in Kent , United Kingdom .	Brian Menell and Tony Teixeira were appointed to run the sale of franchises .	0
Twenty-five of the franchises were purchased in time for the 2005-06 A1 Grand Prix season , which began on 25 September 2005 with the A1 Grand Prix of Nations Great Britain at the Brands Hatch circuit in Kent , United Kingdom .	Thirty franchises were made available .	0
Twenty-five of the franchises were purchased in time for the 2005-06 A1 Grand Prix season , which began on 25 September 2005 with the A1 Grand Prix of Nations Great Britain at the Brands Hatch circuit in Kent , United Kingdom .	Twenty-five of the franchises were purchased for the 2005-06 A1 Grand Prix season .	1
Twenty-five of the franchises were purchased in time for the 2005-06 A1 Grand Prix season , which began on 25 September 2005 with the A1 Grand Prix of Nations Great Britain at the Brands Hatch circuit in Kent , United Kingdom .	It began on 25 September 2005 .	1
Twenty-five of the franchises were purchased in time for the 2005-06 A1 Grand Prix season , which began on 25 September 2005 with the A1 Grand Prix of Nations Great Britain at the Brands Hatch circuit in Kent , United Kingdom .	The first race was the A1 Grand Prix of Nations Great Britain at the Brands Hatch circuit in the United Kingdom .	1
Twenty-five of the franchises were purchased in time for the 2005-06 A1 Grand Prix season , which began on 25 September 2005 with the A1 Grand Prix of Nations Great Britain at the Brands Hatch circuit in Kent , United Kingdom .	The first season was planned for 12 rounds .	0
The nation-based A1GP concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai , initially in 2003 .	The series was ratified by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile ( FIA ) .	0
The nation-based A1GP concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai , initially in 2003 .	Races were held in the traditional Formula One off-season , winter the northern hemisphere .	0
The nation-based A1GP concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai , initially in 2003 .	The seeries was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai in 2003 .	1
The nation-based A1GP concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai , initially in 2003 .	Tony Teixeira took control of the series in 2006 , leading it to liquidation by 2009 .	0
The nation-based A1GP concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai , initially in 2003 .	The concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai in 2003 .	1
The nation-based A1GP concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai , initially in 2003 .	Brian Menell and Tony Teixeira were appointed to run the sale of franchises .	0
The series was thrown into further doubt as more races were canceled , with an announcement made on 5 November 2009 stating that the races in China and Malaysia would not be taking place .	The cars and series infrastructure were tied up in London .	0
The series was thrown into further doubt as more races were canceled , with an announcement made on 5 November 2009 stating that the races in China and Malaysia would not be taking place .	No comment was coming from A1GP .	0
The series was thrown into further doubt as more races were canceled , with an announcement made on 5 November 2009 stating that the races in China and Malaysia would not be taking place .	More races were canceled .	1
The series was thrown into further doubt as more races were canceled , with an announcement made on 5 November 2009 stating that the races in China and Malaysia would not be taking place .	An announcement made on 5 November 2009 stating that the races in China and Malaysia would not be taking place .	1
The series was thrown into further doubt as more races were canceled , with an announcement made on 5 November 2009 stating that the races in China and Malaysia would not be taking place .	The last race that was to be held in the season was the Dutch round .	0
The 2006-07 schedule was released on 7 July 2006 , with the first race at Circuit Park Zandvoort on 1 October 2006 , and the last race at Brands Hatch on 29 April 2007 .	A1 Team France were crowned the first-ever A1 Grand Prix world champions with 172 points .	0
The 2006-07 schedule was released on 7 July 2006 , with the first race at Circuit Park Zandvoort on 1 October 2006 , and the last race at Brands Hatch on 29 April 2007 .	Switzerland were second with 121 points and A1 Team Great Britain third with 97 points .	0
The 2006-07 schedule was released on 7 July 2006 , with the first race at Circuit Park Zandvoort on 1 October 2006 , and the last race at Brands Hatch on 29 April 2007 .	The 2006-07 season started on 1 October 2006 at Circuit Park Zandvoort , and the last race at Brands Hatch on 29 April 2007 .	1
The 2006-07 schedule was released on 7 July 2006 , with the first race at Circuit Park Zandvoort on 1 October 2006 , and the last race at Brands Hatch on 29 April 2007 .	Team Germany won it with 128 points , 35 points lead ahead of Team New Zealand .	0
After a successful first season of A1GP , it was announced on 29 September 2006 that Maktoum was to sell his position as Chairman & Director of A1GP .	Races were held in the traditional Formula One off-season , winter the northern hemisphere .	0
After a successful first season of A1GP , it was announced on 29 September 2006 that Maktoum was to sell his position as Chairman & Director of A1GP .	The seeries was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai in 2003 .	0
After a successful first season of A1GP , it was announced on 29 September 2006 that Maktoum was to sell his position as Chairman & Director of A1GP .	Tony Teixeira took control of the series in 2006 , leading it to liquidation by 2009 .	1
After a successful first season of A1GP , it was announced on 29 September 2006 that Maktoum was to sell his position as Chairman & Director of A1GP .	The concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai in 2003 .	0
The series was ratified by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile ( FIA ) and races were held in the traditional Formula One off-season , the northern hemisphere winter .	It was different from most racing series .	0
The series was ratified by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile ( FIA ) and races were held in the traditional Formula One off-season , the northern hemisphere winter .	The drivers represented their nation as opposed to themselves or a team .	0
The series was ratified by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile ( FIA ) and races were held in the traditional Formula One off-season , the northern hemisphere winter .	The series was ratified by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile ( FIA ) .	1
The series was ratified by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile ( FIA ) and races were held in the traditional Formula One off-season , the northern hemisphere winter .	Races were held in the traditional Formula One off-season , winter the northern hemisphere .	1
The series was ratified by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile ( FIA ) and races were held in the traditional Formula One off-season , the northern hemisphere winter .	The seeries was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai in 2003 .	0
In their final group match against Serbia , Tim Cahill was back from suspension and scored via a header in the second half to allow Australia to go 1-0 up .	Mark Bresciano .	0
In their final group match against Serbia , Tim Cahill was back from suspension and scored via a header in the second half to allow Australia to go 1-0 up .	Vince Grella .	0
In their final group match against Serbia , Tim Cahill was back from suspension and scored via a header in the second half to allow Australia to go 1-0 up .	Tim Cahill .	1
In their final group match against Serbia , Tim Cahill was back from suspension and scored via a header in the second half to allow Australia to go 1-0 up .	Lucas Neill .	0
In the second instar , it has thorn-like horns on the back .	It has yellow stripes on each side of the body .	0
In the second instar , it has thorn-like horns on the back .	There are many small white and yellow bumps on the body .	0
In the second instar , it has thorn-like horns on the back .	After it sheds its skin a second time , the yellow stripes have blue or purple edges on them .	1
In the second instar , it has thorn-like horns on the back .	The horn is yellow-green with the bottom part being black .	1
In the second instar , it has thorn-like horns on the back .	After it sheds its skin for a third time , the caterpillar becomes more yellow .	0
But he wo n't agree to Vishnu and would prefer to die rather than giving up .	Though the Citar Hari Gopalan wrote the book Akilam , as per him , he did not know any thing about the contents of the book .	0
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	The Philosopher 's Stone is the means ( way ) Alchemists use to achieve ( to succeed in ) transmutation .	0
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	Alchemy was an important science because it helped create many other sciences that came after it , for example , Chemistry , Physics , Biology , and astronomy .	1
Western alchemy is recognized as a protoscience that contributed to the development of modern chemistry and medicine .	Alchemists not only tried to create gold but they also looked for self-purification ( to separate the pure from the impure with great care ) and enlightenment .	0
The bush reveals that it was once a living soul named Sir Astolfo , and the island belongs to the sister sorceresses Alcina and Morgana .	The libretto was written by Riccardo Broschi .	0
Despite Astolfo 's warning , Ruggiero strides off to meet this sorceress - and falls under her spell .	Renée Fleming sang the role in Chicago in 1999 .	0
Despite Astolfo 's warning , Ruggiero strides off to meet this sorceress - and falls under her spell .	Alcina is a sorceress .	1
Despite Astolfo 's warning , Ruggiero strides off to meet this sorceress - and falls under her spell .	She changes people into stones , trees , and animals .	0
Despite Astolfo 's warning , Ruggiero strides off to meet this sorceress - and falls under her spell .	Bradamente lands on Alcina 's island looking for her fiancé Ruggiero .	0
Despite Astolfo 's warning , Ruggiero strides off to meet this sorceress - and falls under her spell .	He has been enchanted by Alcina .	1
Despite Astolfo 's warning , Ruggiero strides off to meet this sorceress - and falls under her spell .	He is in love with her .	0
But as that was being demolished , Ashtown castle was discovered .	In 1978 , the building was in bad shape .	0
But as that was being demolished , Ashtown castle was discovered .	It could not be repaired .	0
But as that was being demolished , Ashtown castle was discovered .	When they started to break down the building , they found the towerhouse inside the bigger building .	1
But as that was being demolished , Ashtown castle was discovered .	It was restored to its old form .	0
During the 2000s , Romania implemented a number of reforms to prepare for EU accession , including the consolidation of its democratic systems , the institution of the rule of law , the acknowledgement of respect for human rights , the commitment to personal freedom of expression , and the implementation of a functioning free-market economy .	Since 1989 , Romania has wanted to be a part of the European Union ( EU ) .	0
During the 2000s , Romania implemented a number of reforms to prepare for EU accession , including the consolidation of its democratic systems , the institution of the rule of law , the acknowledgement of respect for human rights , the commitment to personal freedom of expression , and the implementation of a functioning free-market economy .	and put itself forward to become a member in 1995 .	0
During the 2000s , Romania implemented a number of reforms to prepare for EU accession , including the consolidation of its democratic systems , the institution of the rule of law , the acknowledgement of respect for human rights , the commitment to personal freedom of expression , and the implementation of a functioning free-market economy .	During the 2000s , Romania made changes to the country , such as making her democratic system , human rights acts , freedom of speech acts , economy and law better .	1
The objective of joining the EU has also influenced Romania 's regional relations .	The Accession of Romania to the European Union happened on January 1 , 2007 .	0
Romania signed its Europe Agreement in 1993 , and submitted its official application for membership in the EU in 1995 , the third of the post-communist European countries to do so after Hungary and Poland .	Romania was the first country of Central and Eastern Europe to officially join the European Union .	0
Romania signed its Europe Agreement in 1993 , and submitted its official application for membership in the EU in 1995 , the third of the post-communist European countries to do so after Hungary and Poland .	Since 1989 , Romania has wanted to be a part of the European Union ( EU ) .	0
Romania signed its Europe Agreement in 1993 , and submitted its official application for membership in the EU in 1995 , the third of the post-communist European countries to do so after Hungary and Poland .	and put itself forward to become a member in 1995 .	1
Romania signed its Europe Agreement in 1993 , and submitted its official application for membership in the EU in 1995 , the third of the post-communist European countries to do so after Hungary and Poland .	During the 2000s , Romania made changes to the country , such as making her democratic system , human rights acts , freedom of speech acts , economy and law better .	0
Since the Romanian Revolution of 1989 , European Union ( EU ) membership has been the main goal of every Romanian Government and practically every Politics of Romania  political party in Romania ) ) .	The Treaty of Accession was signed on April 25 , 2005 at Luxembourg , Neumünster Abbey .	0
Since the Romanian Revolution of 1989 , European Union ( EU ) membership has been the main goal of every Romanian Government and practically every Politics of Romania  political party in Romania ) ) .	Romania was the first country of Central and Eastern Europe to officially join the European Union .	0
Since the Romanian Revolution of 1989 , European Union ( EU ) membership has been the main goal of every Romanian Government and practically every Politics of Romania  political party in Romania ) ) .	Since 1989 , Romania has wanted to be a part of the European Union ( EU ) .	1
Since the Romanian Revolution of 1989 , European Union ( EU ) membership has been the main goal of every Romanian Government and practically every Politics of Romania  political party in Romania ) ) .	and put itself forward to become a member in 1995 .	0
Examples include Aladdin ( the Sultan and Jafar , respectively ) , The Lion King ( Zazu and Scar , respectively ) , The Hunchback of Notre Dame ( Victor the Gargoyle and Frollo , respectively ) , and Pocahontas ( Wiggins and Ratcliffe , respectively - both of whom happen to be played by the same actor , American David Ogden Stiers ) .	These people may get a new accent in the new language .	0
Examples include Aladdin ( the Sultan and Jafar , respectively ) , The Lion King ( Zazu and Scar , respectively ) , The Hunchback of Notre Dame ( Victor the Gargoyle and Frollo , respectively ) , and Pocahontas ( Wiggins and Ratcliffe , respectively - both of whom happen to be played by the same actor , American David Ogden Stiers ) .	If someone studied German in Austria , people in Germany may think that person was Austrian .	0
The 2007 enlargement of the European Union saw Bulgaria and Romania join the European Union ( EU ) on 1 January 2007 .	The Accession of Romania to the European Union happened on January 1 , 2007 .	1
The 2007 enlargement of the European Union saw Bulgaria and Romania join the European Union ( EU ) on 1 January 2007 .	The Treaty of Accession was signed on April 25 , 2005 at Luxembourg , Neumünster Abbey .	0
Romania was the first country of post-communist Europe to have official relations with the European Community .	The Accession of Romania to the European Union happened on January 1 , 2007 .	0
Romania was the first country of post-communist Europe to have official relations with the European Community .	The Treaty of Accession was signed on April 25 , 2005 at Luxembourg , Neumünster Abbey .	0
Romania was the first country of post-communist Europe to have official relations with the European Community .	Romania was the first country of Central and Eastern Europe to officially join the European Union .	1
Romania was the first country of post-communist Europe to have official relations with the European Community .	Since 1989 , Romania has wanted to be a part of the European Union ( EU ) .	0
Those films were , in chronological order : Hamlet , The Bridge on the River Kwai , Lawrence of Arabia , Tom Jones , A Man for All Seasons , Oliver !	The King and I - 20th Century-Fox - Charles Brackett .	0
Those films were , in chronological order : Hamlet , The Bridge on the River Kwai , Lawrence of Arabia , Tom Jones , A Man for All Seasons , Oliver !	The Ten Commandments - DeMille , Paramount - Cecil B. DeMille .	0
Those films were , in chronological order : Hamlet , The Bridge on the River Kwai , Lawrence of Arabia , Tom Jones , A Man for All Seasons , Oliver !	1957 The Bridge on the River Kwai - Horizon , Columbia - Sam Spiegel .	1
Those films were , in chronological order : Hamlet , The Bridge on the River Kwai , Lawrence of Arabia , Tom Jones , A Man for All Seasons , Oliver !	Peyton Place - 20th Century-Fox - Jerry Wald .	0
Australia were comprehensively defeated 4-0 , with goals by Podolski and Klose in the first half , followed by two more goals in the second half after Australia was reduced to ten men , due to Tim Cahill being sent off with a straight red card for a tackle from behind on Bastian Schweinsteiger .	Mark Bresciano .	0
Australia were comprehensively defeated 4-0 , with goals by Podolski and Klose in the first half , followed by two more goals in the second half after Australia was reduced to ten men , due to Tim Cahill being sent off with a straight red card for a tackle from behind on Bastian Schweinsteiger .	Vince Grella .	0
Australia were comprehensively defeated 4-0 , with goals by Podolski and Klose in the first half , followed by two more goals in the second half after Australia was reduced to ten men , due to Tim Cahill being sent off with a straight red card for a tackle from behind on Bastian Schweinsteiger .	Tim Cahill .	1
Australia were comprehensively defeated 4-0 , with goals by Podolski and Klose in the first half , followed by two more goals in the second half after Australia was reduced to ten men , due to Tim Cahill being sent off with a straight red card for a tackle from behind on Bastian Schweinsteiger .	Lucas Neill .	0
In the ancient Greece and Rome and the medieval world , it was considered disgraceful for a woman to go on the stage , and this belief persisted until the 17th century , when in Venice it was broken .	Women only began performing often in the 17th century .	0
In the ancient Greece and Rome and the medieval world , it was considered disgraceful for a woman to go on the stage , and this belief persisted until the 17th century , when in Venice it was broken .	When they began , people called them the `` actresses '' .	0
In the ancient Greece and Rome and the medieval world , it was considered disgraceful for a woman to go on the stage , and this belief persisted until the 17th century , when in Venice it was broken .	In the ancient world and in the Middle Ages , people thought it was bad ( shameful ) for a woman to act .	1
In the ancient Greece and Rome and the medieval world , it was considered disgraceful for a woman to go on the stage , and this belief persisted until the 17th century , when in Venice it was broken .	People thought this until the 17th century .	1
In the ancient Greece and Rome and the medieval world , it was considered disgraceful for a woman to go on the stage , and this belief persisted until the 17th century , when in Venice it was broken .	In the time of William Shakespeare , men and boys played women 's roles , but we think perhaps women also acted secretly .	0
In the past , only men could become actors in some societies .	Before then , people sang and danced stories , but no-one had been a person in the story .	0
In the past , only men could become actors in some societies .	Today we call actors `` thespians '' because of Thespis .	0
In the past , only men could become actors in some societies .	In the past , the name `` actor '' was only for men .	1
In the past , only men could become actors in some societies .	Women only began performing often in the 17th century .	1
In the past , only men could become actors in some societies .	When they began , people called them the `` actresses '' .	0
Dustin Hoffman and Robin Williams have each appeared in a hit comedy film ( Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire , respectively ) in which they played most scenes dressed as a woman .	In comic theater and film , people often use a man for a woman 's part , or a woman for a man 's part - this has a long history .	0
Dustin Hoffman and Robin Williams have each appeared in a hit comedy film ( Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire , respectively ) in which they played most scenes dressed as a woman .	Most of Shakespeare 's comedies have examples of this .	0
Dustin Hoffman and Robin Williams have each appeared in a hit comedy film ( Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire , respectively ) in which they played most scenes dressed as a woman .	Both Dustin Hoffman and Robin Williams were in popular comedy films where they played most scenes as men in women 's clothes , pretending to be women .	1
Dustin Hoffman and Robin Williams have each appeared in a hit comedy film ( Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire , respectively ) in which they played most scenes dressed as a woman .	Voice acting is a special type of acting .	0
Actress `` remains in general use '' , although in a survey of a `` wide cross-section of current British English '' , compiled in 2010 , actor was almost twice as commonly found as actress .	People thought this until the 17th century .	0
Actress `` remains in general use '' , although in a survey of a `` wide cross-section of current British English '' , compiled in 2010 , actor was almost twice as commonly found as actress .	In the time of William Shakespeare , men and boys played women 's roles , but we think perhaps women also acted secretly .	0
Actress `` remains in general use '' , although in a survey of a `` wide cross-section of current British English '' , compiled in 2010 , actor was almost twice as commonly found as actress .	Today , the name `` actor '' is for both men and women , because some people think the name `` actress '' is sexist .	1
Actress `` remains in general use '' , although in a survey of a `` wide cross-section of current British English '' , compiled in 2010 , actor was almost twice as commonly found as actress .	But people also use the name actress very often .	0
Actress `` remains in general use '' , although in a survey of a `` wide cross-section of current British English '' , compiled in 2010 , actor was almost twice as commonly found as actress .	An actor is a person who acts , or has a role ( a part ) in a movie , television show , play , or radio show .	0
Actress `` remains in general use '' , although in a survey of a `` wide cross-section of current British English '' , compiled in 2010 , actor was almost twice as commonly found as actress .	Sometimes actors only sing or dance , or sometimes they only work on radio .	0
Actress `` remains in general use '' , although in a survey of a `` wide cross-section of current British English '' , compiled in 2010 , actor was almost twice as commonly found as actress .	A woman actor is also an actress , but today most people use the word `` actor '' for both men and women .	1
Actress `` remains in general use '' , although in a survey of a `` wide cross-section of current British English '' , compiled in 2010 , actor was almost twice as commonly found as actress .	The first time we know an actor worked was in 534 B.C. , probably on November 23rd .	0
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	An actor is a person who acts , or has a role ( a part ) in a movie , television show , play , or radio show .	0
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	Sometimes actors only sing or dance , or sometimes they only work on radio .	0
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	A woman actor is also an actress , but today most people use the word `` actor '' for both men and women .	1
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	The first time we know an actor worked was in 534 B.C. , probably on November 23rd .	0
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	In the past , the name `` actor '' was only for men .	0
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	Women only began performing often in the 17th century .	0
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	When they began , people called them the `` actresses '' .	1
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	In the ancient world and in the Middle Ages , people thought it was bad ( shameful ) for a woman to act .	0
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	People thought this until the 17th century .	0
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	In the time of William Shakespeare , men and boys played women 's roles , but we think perhaps women also acted secretly .	0
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	Today , the name `` actor '' is for both men and women , because some people think the name `` actress '' is sexist .	1
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	But people also use the name actress very often .	1
The word actor refers to a person who acts regardless of gender , and this term `` is increasingly preferred '' , while actress refers specifically to a female person who acts .	Women actors sometimes act the roles of young boys , because in some ways a woman is more similar to a boy than a man is .	0
Most of Shakespeare 's comedies include instances of overt cross-dressing , such as Francis Flute in A Midsummer Night 's Dream .	Linda Hunt won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in The Year of Living Dangerously , in which she played the part of a man .	0
Most of Shakespeare 's comedies include instances of overt cross-dressing , such as Francis Flute in A Midsummer Night 's Dream .	In comic theater and film , people often use a man for a woman 's part , or a woman for a man 's part - this has a long history .	0
Most of Shakespeare 's comedies include instances of overt cross-dressing , such as Francis Flute in A Midsummer Night 's Dream .	Most of Shakespeare 's comedies have examples of this .	1
Most of Shakespeare 's comedies include instances of overt cross-dressing , such as Francis Flute in A Midsummer Night 's Dream .	Both Dustin Hoffman and Robin Williams were in popular comedy films where they played most scenes as men in women 's clothes , pretending to be women .	0
Within the profession , however , the re-adoption of the neutral term dates to the 1950s-60s , the post-war period when women 's contribution to cultural life in general was being re-evaluated .	Women only began performing often in the 17th century .	0
Within the profession , however , the re-adoption of the neutral term dates to the 1950s-60s , the post-war period when women 's contribution to cultural life in general was being re-evaluated .	When they began , people called them the `` actresses '' .	0
Within the profession , however , the re-adoption of the neutral term dates to the 1950s-60s , the post-war period when women 's contribution to cultural life in general was being re-evaluated .	In the ancient world and in the Middle Ages , people thought it was bad ( shameful ) for a woman to act .	1
Within the profession , however , the re-adoption of the neutral term dates to the 1950s-60s , the post-war period when women 's contribution to cultural life in general was being re-evaluated .	People thought this until the 17th century .	1
Within the profession , however , the re-adoption of the neutral term dates to the 1950s-60s , the post-war period when women 's contribution to cultural life in general was being re-evaluated .	In the time of William Shakespeare , men and boys played women 's roles , but we think perhaps women also acted secretly .	0
In the former film Linda Hunt played the pivotal role of Billy Kwan , for which she received the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress .	Examples are Hansel in Hansel und Gretel , and Cherubino in The Marriage of Figaro .	0
In the former film Linda Hunt played the pivotal role of Billy Kwan , for which she received the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress .	Mary Pickford played the part of `` Little Lord Fauntleroy '' in the first film version of the book .	0
In the former film Linda Hunt played the pivotal role of Billy Kwan , for which she received the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress .	Linda Hunt won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in The Year of Living Dangerously , in which she played the part of a man .	1
In the former film Linda Hunt played the pivotal role of Billy Kwan , for which she received the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress .	In comic theater and film , people often use a man for a woman 's part , or a woman for a man 's part - this has a long history .	0
In modern times , women sometimes play the roles of prepubescent boys .	Today , the name `` actor '' is for both men and women , because some people think the name `` actress '' is sexist .	0
In modern times , women sometimes play the roles of prepubescent boys .	But people also use the name actress very often .	0
In modern times , women sometimes play the roles of prepubescent boys .	Women actors sometimes act the roles of young boys , because in some ways a woman is more similar to a boy than a man is .	1
In modern times , women sometimes play the roles of prepubescent boys .	A woman usually plays the role of Peter Pan , for example .	0
Women in male roles are uncommon in film with the notable exceptions of the films The Year of Living Dangerously and I 'm Not There .	Examples are Hansel in Hansel und Gretel , and Cherubino in The Marriage of Figaro .	0
Women in male roles are uncommon in film with the notable exceptions of the films The Year of Living Dangerously and I 'm Not There .	Mary Pickford played the part of `` Little Lord Fauntleroy '' in the first film version of the book .	0
Women in male roles are uncommon in film with the notable exceptions of the films The Year of Living Dangerously and I 'm Not There .	Linda Hunt won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in The Year of Living Dangerously , in which she played the part of a man .	1
Women in male roles are uncommon in film with the notable exceptions of the films The Year of Living Dangerously and I 'm Not There .	In comic theater and film , people often use a man for a woman 's part , or a woman for a man 's part - this has a long history .	0
In José Saramago 's novel Death With Interruptions , Acherontia atropos appears on the American edition 's cover , and is a topic that two characters mull over .	However , A. atropos will sometimes hibernate as a caterpillar .	0
In José Saramago 's novel Death With Interruptions , Acherontia atropos appears on the American edition 's cover , and is a topic that two characters mull over .	A. atropos does not live through the winter in Europe .	0
An actor ( sometimes actress for female ; see terminology ) is a person who acts in a dramatic or comic production and who works in film , television , theater , or radio in that capacity .	An actor is a person who acts , or has a role ( a part ) in a movie , television show , play , or radio show .	1
An actor ( sometimes actress for female ; see terminology ) is a person who acts in a dramatic or comic production and who works in film , television , theater , or radio in that capacity .	Sometimes actors only sing or dance , or sometimes they only work on radio .	0
The stage role of Peter Pan , for example , is traditionally played by a woman , as are most principal boys in British pantomime .	But people also use the name actress very often .	0
The stage role of Peter Pan , for example , is traditionally played by a woman , as are most principal boys in British pantomime .	Women actors sometimes act the roles of young boys , because in some ways a woman is more similar to a boy than a man is .	0
The stage role of Peter Pan , for example , is traditionally played by a woman , as are most principal boys in British pantomime .	A woman usually plays the role of Peter Pan , for example .	1
The stage role of Peter Pan , for example , is traditionally played by a woman , as are most principal boys in British pantomime .	In pantomime , a sort of play for children ( not the same as mime ) , the most important young man is also a woman .	0
Examples are Hansel in Hänsel und Gretel , Cherubino in The Marriage of Figaro and Octavian in Der Rosenkavalier .	In pantomime , a sort of play for children ( not the same as mime ) , the most important young man is also a woman .	0
Examples are Hansel in Hänsel und Gretel , Cherubino in The Marriage of Figaro and Octavian in Der Rosenkavalier .	Opera has some ` pants roles ' which women traditionally sing , usually mezzo-sopranos .	0
Examples are Hansel in Hänsel und Gretel , Cherubino in The Marriage of Figaro and Octavian in Der Rosenkavalier .	Examples are Hansel in Hansel und Gretel , and Cherubino in The Marriage of Figaro .	1
Examples are Hansel in Hänsel und Gretel , Cherubino in The Marriage of Figaro and Octavian in Der Rosenkavalier .	Mary Pickford played the part of `` Little Lord Fauntleroy '' in the first film version of the book .	0
Linda Hunt won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for playing Billy Kwan in The Year of Living Dangerously .	Examples are Hansel in Hansel und Gretel , and Cherubino in The Marriage of Figaro .	0
Linda Hunt won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for playing Billy Kwan in The Year of Living Dangerously .	Mary Pickford played the part of `` Little Lord Fauntleroy '' in the first film version of the book .	0
Linda Hunt won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for playing Billy Kwan in The Year of Living Dangerously .	Linda Hunt won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in The Year of Living Dangerously , in which she played the part of a man .	1
Linda Hunt won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for playing Billy Kwan in The Year of Living Dangerously .	In comic theater and film , people often use a man for a woman 's part , or a woman for a man 's part - this has a long history .	0
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	An actor is a person who acts , or has a role ( a part ) in a movie , television show , play , or radio show .	0
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	Sometimes actors only sing or dance , or sometimes they only work on radio .	0
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	A woman actor is also an actress , but today most people use the word `` actor '' for both men and women .	1
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	The first time we know an actor worked was in 534 B.C. , probably on November 23rd .	0
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	Today we call actors `` thespians '' because of Thespis .	0
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	In the past , the name `` actor '' was only for men .	0
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	Women only began performing often in the 17th century .	1
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	When they began , people called them the `` actresses '' .	1
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	In the ancient world and in the Middle Ages , people thought it was bad ( shameful ) for a woman to act .	0
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	In the time of William Shakespeare , men and boys played women 's roles , but we think perhaps women also acted secretly .	0
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	Today , the name `` actor '' is for both men and women , because some people think the name `` actress '' is sexist .	0
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	But people also use the name actress very often .	1
After 1660 , when women first appeared on stage , actor and actress were initially used interchangeably for female performers , but later , influenced by the French actrice , actress became the usual term .	Women actors sometimes act the roles of young boys , because in some ways a woman is more similar to a boy than a man is .	0
Women playing men in live theater is particularly common in presentations of older plays , such as those of Shakespeare , that have large numbers of male characters in roles where the gender no longer matters in modern times .	Mary Pickford played the part of `` Little Lord Fauntleroy '' in the first film version of the book .	0
Women playing men in live theater is particularly common in presentations of older plays , such as those of Shakespeare , that have large numbers of male characters in roles where the gender no longer matters in modern times .	Linda Hunt won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in The Year of Living Dangerously , in which she played the part of a man .	0
Women playing men in live theater is particularly common in presentations of older plays , such as those of Shakespeare , that have large numbers of male characters in roles where the gender no longer matters in modern times .	In comic theater and film , people often use a man for a woman 's part , or a woman for a man 's part - this has a long history .	1
Women playing men in live theater is particularly common in presentations of older plays , such as those of Shakespeare , that have large numbers of male characters in roles where the gender no longer matters in modern times .	Most of Shakespeare 's comedies have examples of this .	1
Women playing men in live theater is particularly common in presentations of older plays , such as those of Shakespeare , that have large numbers of male characters in roles where the gender no longer matters in modern times .	Both Dustin Hoffman and Robin Williams were in popular comedy films where they played most scenes as men in women 's clothes , pretending to be women .	0
In honor of Thespis , actors are commonly called Thespians .	This was a big change in storytelling .	0
In honor of Thespis , actors are commonly called Thespians .	Before then , people sang and danced stories , but no-one had been a person in the story .	0
In honor of Thespis , actors are commonly called Thespians .	Today we call actors `` thespians '' because of Thespis .	1
In honor of Thespis , actors are commonly called Thespians .	In the past , the name `` actor '' was only for men .	0
In the time of William Shakespeare , women 's roles were generally played by men or boys .	In the ancient world and in the Middle Ages , people thought it was bad ( shameful ) for a woman to act .	0
In the time of William Shakespeare , women 's roles were generally played by men or boys .	People thought this until the 17th century .	0
In the time of William Shakespeare , women 's roles were generally played by men or boys .	In the time of William Shakespeare , men and boys played women 's roles , but we think perhaps women also acted secretly .	1
In the time of William Shakespeare , women 's roles were generally played by men or boys .	Today , the name `` actor '' is for both men and women , because some people think the name `` actress '' is sexist .	0
Opera has several `` breeches roles '' traditionally sung by women , usually mezzo-sopranos .	A woman usually plays the role of Peter Pan , for example .	0
Opera has several `` breeches roles '' traditionally sung by women , usually mezzo-sopranos .	In pantomime , a sort of play for children ( not the same as mime ) , the most important young man is also a woman .	0
Opera has several `` breeches roles '' traditionally sung by women , usually mezzo-sopranos .	Opera has some ` pants roles ' which women traditionally sing , usually mezzo-sopranos .	1
Opera has several `` breeches roles '' traditionally sung by women , usually mezzo-sopranos .	Examples are Hansel in Hansel und Gretel , and Cherubino in The Marriage of Figaro .	0
Prior to Thespis ' act , stories were only known to be told in song and dance and in third person narrative .	The changes in calendar over the years make it hard to say exactly when the Greek actor Thespis became the first person to speak words as a character in a play at the Theatre Dionysus .	0
Prior to Thespis ' act , stories were only known to be told in song and dance and in third person narrative .	This was a big change in storytelling .	0
Prior to Thespis ' act , stories were only known to be told in song and dance and in third person narrative .	Before then , people sang and danced stories , but no-one had been a person in the story .	1
Prior to Thespis ' act , stories were only known to be told in song and dance and in third person narrative .	Today we call actors `` thespians '' because of Thespis .	0
The first occurrence of the term actress was in 1700 according to the OED and is ascribed to Dryden .	In the past , the name `` actor '' was only for men .	0
The first occurrence of the term actress was in 1700 according to the OED and is ascribed to Dryden .	Women only began performing often in the 17th century .	0
The first occurrence of the term actress was in 1700 according to the OED and is ascribed to Dryden .	When they began , people called them the `` actresses '' .	1
The first occurrence of the term actress was in 1700 according to the OED and is ascribed to Dryden .	In the ancient world and in the Middle Ages , people thought it was bad ( shameful ) for a woman to act .	0
Having an actor dress as the opposite sex for comic effect is also a long-standing tradition in comic theater and film .	Mary Pickford played the part of `` Little Lord Fauntleroy '' in the first film version of the book .	0
Having an actor dress as the opposite sex for comic effect is also a long-standing tradition in comic theater and film .	Linda Hunt won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in The Year of Living Dangerously , in which she played the part of a man .	0
Having an actor dress as the opposite sex for comic effect is also a long-standing tradition in comic theater and film .	In comic theater and film , people often use a man for a woman 's part , or a woman for a man 's part - this has a long history .	1
Having an actor dress as the opposite sex for comic effect is also a long-standing tradition in comic theater and film .	Most of Shakespeare 's comedies have examples of this .	0
The first recorded case of an actor performing took place in 534 BC ( though the changes in calendar over the years make it hard to determine exactly ) when the Greek performer Thespis stepped on to the stage at the Theatre Dionysus and became the first known person to speak words as a character in a play or story .	Sometimes actors only sing or dance , or sometimes they only work on radio .	0
The first recorded case of an actor performing took place in 534 BC ( though the changes in calendar over the years make it hard to determine exactly ) when the Greek performer Thespis stepped on to the stage at the Theatre Dionysus and became the first known person to speak words as a character in a play or story .	A woman actor is also an actress , but today most people use the word `` actor '' for both men and women .	0
The first recorded case of an actor performing took place in 534 BC ( though the changes in calendar over the years make it hard to determine exactly ) when the Greek performer Thespis stepped on to the stage at the Theatre Dionysus and became the first known person to speak words as a character in a play or story .	The first time we know an actor worked was in 534 B.C. , probably on November 23rd .	1
The first recorded case of an actor performing took place in 534 BC ( though the changes in calendar over the years make it hard to determine exactly ) when the Greek performer Thespis stepped on to the stage at the Theatre Dionysus and became the first known person to speak words as a character in a play or story .	The changes in calendar over the years make it hard to say exactly when the Greek actor Thespis became the first person to speak words as a character in a play at the Theatre Dionysus .	1
The first recorded case of an actor performing took place in 534 BC ( though the changes in calendar over the years make it hard to determine exactly ) when the Greek performer Thespis stepped on to the stage at the Theatre Dionysus and became the first known person to speak words as a character in a play or story .	This was a big change in storytelling .	0
Loxodonta is one of the two existing genera in the family Elephantidae .	All in all African elephants are some of the smartest land animales in the world .	0
Although it is commonly believed that the genus was named by Georges Cuvier in 1825 , Cuvier spelled it Loxodonte .	African elephants are the two species of elephants in the genus Loxodonta , one of the two existing genera in Elephantidae .	0
Although it is commonly believed that the genus was named by Georges Cuvier in 1825 , Cuvier spelled it Loxodonte .	Although it is commonly believed that the genus was named by Georges Cuvier in 1825 , Cuvier spelled it Loxodonte .	1
Although it is commonly believed that the genus was named by Georges Cuvier in 1825 , Cuvier spelled it Loxodonte .	An anonymous author romanized the spelling to Loxodonta and the ICZN recognizes this as the proper authority .	0
Anniston is a city in Calhoun County in the state of Alabama .	The main source of local contamination was a Monsanto chemical factory , which was closed .	0
As of the 2000 census , the population of the city is 24,276 .	Anniston is a city in , and county seat of , Calhoun County in the state of Alabama , United States .	0
As of the 2000 census , the population of the city is 24,276 .	As of the 2000 census , the population of the city is 24,276 .	1
As of the 2000 census , the population of the city is 24,276 .	According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates , the city had a population of 23,741 .	0
According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates , the city had a population of 23,741 .	Anniston is a city in , and county seat of , Calhoun County in the state of Alabama , United States .	0
According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates , the city had a population of 23,741 .	As of the 2000 census , the population of the city is 24,276 .	0
According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates , the city had a population of 23,741 .	According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates , the city had a population of 23,741 .	1
According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates , the city had a population of 23,741 .	In 2002 , an investigation by 60 minutes showed Anniston was among the most toxic cities in the country .	0
According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates , the city had a population of 23,741 .	The main source of local contamination was a Monsanto chemical factory , which was closed .	0
The city is the county seat of Calhoun County and one of two urban centers\/principal cities of and included in the Anniston-Oxford Metropolitan Statistical Area .	Anniston is a city in , and county seat of , Calhoun County in the state of Alabama , United States .	1
The city is the county seat of Calhoun County and one of two urban centers\/principal cities of and included in the Anniston-Oxford Metropolitan Statistical Area .	As of the 2000 census , the population of the city is 24,276 .	0
Starting with the 7th Academy Awards , held in 1935 , the period of eligibility became the full previous calendar year from January 1 to December 31 .	Room at the Top - Romulus , Continental ( British ) - John Woolf and James Woolf .	0
In linguistics , an accent is a manner of pronunciation peculiar to a particular individual , location , or nation .	For other uses , see Accent ( disambiguation ) .	0
In linguistics , an accent is a manner of pronunciation peculiar to a particular individual , location , or nation .	An accent is the way a person speaks .	1
In linguistics , an accent is a manner of pronunciation peculiar to a particular individual , location , or nation .	Sometimes people will talk about someone 's accent .	0
In linguistics , an accent is a manner of pronunciation peculiar to a particular individual , location , or nation .	They might say that the person has a German accent , or an Australian accent .	0
In linguistics , an accent is a manner of pronunciation peculiar to a particular individual , location , or nation .	An accent is the way words are said .	0
In linguistics , an accent is a manner of pronunciation peculiar to a particular individual , location , or nation .	The way a person says words usually comes from where he or she was a child , and other people where he or she lives .	1
In linguistics , an accent is a manner of pronunciation peculiar to a particular individual , location , or nation .	People learn how to say words and sentences so that they sound the same as when others speak .	0
Most individuals who speak a non-native language fluently speak it with an accent of their native tongue .	Even people in the same country can have different accents .	0
Most individuals who speak a non-native language fluently speak it with an accent of their native tongue .	Sometimes people can tell what city someone lived in when as a child , by the way that person speaks .	0
Most individuals who speak a non-native language fluently speak it with an accent of their native tongue .	( e.g. a New York City accent ) When first trying to learn a new language , often a person will still have his or her old accent .	1
Most individuals who speak a non-native language fluently speak it with an accent of their native tongue .	People may be able to guess what country or place that person lived in before .	0
Children of immigrant families , for example , generally have a more native-like pronunciation than their parents , though both children and parents may have a noticeable non-native accent - however these generally differ : the parents ' accent tends to be influenced by the sound system of their native language whilst the child is more inclined to apply hyper-pronunciation resulting from their need to correct their parents ' shortcomings in fluency .	Even people in the same country can have different accents .	0
Children of immigrant families , for example , generally have a more native-like pronunciation than their parents , though both children and parents may have a noticeable non-native accent - however these generally differ : the parents ' accent tends to be influenced by the sound system of their native language whilst the child is more inclined to apply hyper-pronunciation resulting from their need to correct their parents ' shortcomings in fluency .	Sometimes people can tell what city someone lived in when as a child , by the way that person speaks .	0
Children of immigrant families , for example , generally have a more native-like pronunciation than their parents , though both children and parents may have a noticeable non-native accent - however these generally differ : the parents ' accent tends to be influenced by the sound system of their native language whilst the child is more inclined to apply hyper-pronunciation resulting from their need to correct their parents ' shortcomings in fluency .	( e.g. a New York City accent ) When first trying to learn a new language , often a person will still have his or her old accent .	1
Children of immigrant families , for example , generally have a more native-like pronunciation than their parents , though both children and parents may have a noticeable non-native accent - however these generally differ : the parents ' accent tends to be influenced by the sound system of their native language whilst the child is more inclined to apply hyper-pronunciation resulting from their need to correct their parents ' shortcomings in fluency .	People may be able to guess what country or place that person lived in before .	0
An accent may identify the locality in which its speakers reside ( a geographical or regional accent ) , the socio-economic status of its speakers , their ethnicity , their caste or social class , their first language ( when the language in which the accent is heard is not their native language ) , and so on .	They might say that the person has a German accent , or an Australian accent .	0
An accent may identify the locality in which its speakers reside ( a geographical or regional accent ) , the socio-economic status of its speakers , their ethnicity , their caste or social class , their first language ( when the language in which the accent is heard is not their native language ) , and so on .	An accent is the way words are said .	0
An accent may identify the locality in which its speakers reside ( a geographical or regional accent ) , the socio-economic status of its speakers , their ethnicity , their caste or social class , their first language ( when the language in which the accent is heard is not their native language ) , and so on .	The way a person says words usually comes from where he or she was a child , and other people where he or she lives .	1
An accent may identify the locality in which its speakers reside ( a geographical or regional accent ) , the socio-economic status of its speakers , their ethnicity , their caste or social class , their first language ( when the language in which the accent is heard is not their native language ) , and so on .	People learn how to say words and sentences so that they sound the same as when others speak .	0
An accent may identify the locality in which its speakers reside ( a geographical or regional accent ) , the socio-economic status of its speakers , their ethnicity , their caste or social class , their first language ( when the language in which the accent is heard is not their native language ) , and so on .	People speaking the same language can have different accents .	0
An accent may identify the locality in which its speakers reside ( a geographical or regional accent ) , the socio-economic status of its speakers , their ethnicity , their caste or social class , their first language ( when the language in which the accent is heard is not their native language ) , and so on .	Even people in the same country can have different accents .	0
An accent may identify the locality in which its speakers reside ( a geographical or regional accent ) , the socio-economic status of its speakers , their ethnicity , their caste or social class , their first language ( when the language in which the accent is heard is not their native language ) , and so on .	Sometimes people can tell what city someone lived in when as a child , by the way that person speaks .	1
An accent may identify the locality in which its speakers reside ( a geographical or regional accent ) , the socio-economic status of its speakers , their ethnicity , their caste or social class , their first language ( when the language in which the accent is heard is not their native language ) , and so on .	( e.g. a New York City accent ) When first trying to learn a new language , often a person will still have his or her old accent .	0
An accent may identify the locality in which its speakers reside ( a geographical or regional accent ) , the socio-economic status of its speakers , their ethnicity , their caste or social class , their first language ( when the language in which the accent is heard is not their native language ) , and so on .	People may be able to guess what country or place that person lived in before .	1
An accent may identify the locality in which its speakers reside ( a geographical or regional accent ) , the socio-economic status of its speakers , their ethnicity , their caste or social class , their first language ( when the language in which the accent is heard is not their native language ) , and so on .	If someone can learn another language well enough , he or she may not have the old accent anymore .	0
Starting with the 7th Academy Awards , held in 1935 , the period of eligibility became the full previous calendar year from January 1 to December 31 .	1957 The Bridge on the River Kwai - Horizon , Columbia - Sam Spiegel .	0
Starting with the 7th Academy Awards , held in 1935 , the period of eligibility became the full previous calendar year from January 1 to December 31 .	Peyton Place - 20th Century-Fox - Jerry Wald .	0
Accents typically differ in quality of voice , pronunciation of vowels and consonants , stress , and prosody .	An accent is the way a person speaks .	1
Accents typically differ in quality of voice , pronunciation of vowels and consonants , stress , and prosody .	Sometimes people will talk about someone 's accent .	0
An accent may identify the locality in which its speakers reside ( a geographical or regional accent ) , the socio-economic status of its speakers , their ethnicity , their caste or social class , their first language ( when the language in which the accent is heard is not their native language ) , and so on .	If someone studied German in Austria , people in Germany may think that person was Austrian .	0
Accents typically differ in quality of voice , pronunciation of vowels and consonants , stress , and prosody .	For other uses , see Accent ( disambiguation ) .	0
Accents typically differ in quality of voice , pronunciation of vowels and consonants , stress , and prosody .	If someone studied German in Austria , people in Germany may think that person was Austrian .	0
Although grammar , semantics , vocabulary , and other language characteristics often vary concurrently with accent , the word ` accent ' refers specifically to the differences in pronunciation , whereas the word ` dialect ' encompasses the broader set of linguistic differences .	For other uses , see Accent ( disambiguation ) .	0
Although grammar , semantics , vocabulary , and other language characteristics often vary concurrently with accent , the word ` accent ' refers specifically to the differences in pronunciation , whereas the word ` dialect ' encompasses the broader set of linguistic differences .	An accent is the way a person speaks .	1
Although grammar , semantics , vocabulary , and other language characteristics often vary concurrently with accent , the word ` accent ' refers specifically to the differences in pronunciation , whereas the word ` dialect ' encompasses the broader set of linguistic differences .	Sometimes people will talk about someone 's accent .	0
Coordinates : 47 ° 28 ′ 25 ″ N 0 ° 33 ′ 15 ″ W \/ 47.4736 ° N 0.5542 ° W \/ 47.4736 ; -0.5542 Angers ( French pronunciation : ( ɑ̃ .	The city existed before the Roman Empire .	0
ʒe ) ) is the main city in the Maine-et-Loire department in western France about 300 km ( 190 mi ) south-west of Paris .	Around 160,000 inhabitants live inside the city and 300,000 live in the metropolitan area .	0
ʒe ) ) is the main city in the Maine-et-Loire department in western France about 300 km ( 190 mi ) south-west of Paris .	It is the capital of the historical province called Anjou .	1
ʒe ) ) is the main city in the Maine-et-Loire department in western France about 300 km ( 190 mi ) south-west of Paris .	Nowadays , the name of Anjou is Maine-et-Loire .	1
ʒe ) ) is the main city in the Maine-et-Loire department in western France about 300 km ( 190 mi ) south-west of Paris .	The inhabitants of Angers and of Anjou are called ` angevins ' .	0
Key elements of the reforms announced in October 2008 include reducing the armed forces to a strength of one million by 2012 ( planned end-date was 2016 ) ; reducing the number of officers ; centralising officer training from 65 military schools into 10 ` systemic ' military training centres ; reducing the size of the central command ; introducing more civilian logistics and auxiliary staff ; elimination of cadre-strength formations ; reorganising the reserves ; reorganising the army into a brigade system ; and reorganising air forces into an air base system instead of regiments .	As of 2008 , 480,000 men joined the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation .	0
By the beginning of the reform , there were about 1,200,000 active personnel in the Russian army .	The Armed Forces of the Russian Federation is the armed forces of Russia , created after the breakup of the Soviet Union .	0
By the beginning of the reform , there were about 1,200,000 active personnel in the Russian army .	The Armed Forces is known to be one of the biggest in the world with about 1,200,000 troops active .	1
By the beginning of the reform , there were about 1,200,000 active personnel in the Russian army .	Russia also makes its own weapons .	0
The author claims that God woke him up during his sleep and commissioned him to take dictation of what he said .	This is the largest Ammanai work .	0
The author claims that God woke him up during his sleep and commissioned him to take dictation of what he said .	According to the book , Hari Gopalan Citar wrote this book on the twenty-seventh day of the Tamil month of Karthikai ( November\/December ) in the year 1016 ME ( 1841 CE ) .	0
The author claims that God woke him up during his sleep and commissioned him to take dictation of what he said .	The author says that God woke him up during his sleep and ordered him to take the first words from what he said .	1
The author claims that God woke him up during his sleep and commissioned him to take dictation of what he said .	Akilathirattu was recorded on palm leaves .	0
Due to ignorance ( avidyā ) , the Brahman is visible as the material world and its objects ( nama rupa vikara ) .	He realized that many people would ask him , `` If a person 's soul is really one with God all along , then what makes a person feel so separate from God ? ''	0
Due to ignorance ( avidyā ) , the Brahman is visible as the material world and its objects ( nama rupa vikara ) .	His answer to this was that we are ignorant of our real self being God because we see through a kind of filter -- like looking through a dirty piece of glass -- and he called this filter we look through , maya , which means `` illusion '' in Sanskrit .	0
Due to ignorance ( avidyā ) , the Brahman is visible as the material world and its objects ( nama rupa vikara ) .	Shankara said that our ignorance makes us feel very separate from God , and even from everything around us .	1
Due to ignorance ( avidyā ) , the Brahman is visible as the material world and its objects ( nama rupa vikara ) .	Shankara suggested that the best way people can find the truth is for them to try to clear their thinking of all ignorant thoughts , be very good , and think very hard about who they really are .	0
Due to ignorance ( avidyā ) , the Brahman is visible as the material world and its objects ( nama rupa vikara ) .	He said that if a person did all these things he would realize that God was himself all along .	0
Due to ignorance ( avidyā ) , the Brahman is visible as the material world and its objects ( nama rupa vikara ) .	This is a very different idea from some other religions where we are told we are separate from God and need to go to Him .	0
Due to ignorance ( avidyā ) , the Brahman is visible as the material world and its objects ( nama rupa vikara ) .	In Advaita , the idea is that people never really were separate from God , but their ignorance made them see it that way .	1
Due to ignorance ( avidyā ) , the Brahman is visible as the material world and its objects ( nama rupa vikara ) .	Not all Hindus believe in Advaita Vedanta .	0
Advaita ( literally , non-duality ) is a system of thought where `` Advaita '' refers to the identity of the Self ( Atman ) and the Whole ( Brahman ) .	The most famous Hindu philosopher was named Adi Shankara who lived in India more than a thousand years ago .	0
Advaita ( literally , non-duality ) is a system of thought where `` Advaita '' refers to the identity of the Self ( Atman ) and the Whole ( Brahman ) .	Adi Sankara learned the sacred texts of Hinduism , like Vedas and Upanishads under his teacher Govinda Bhagavadpada and later wrote extensive commentaries of Hindu sacred texts called Upanishads .	0
Advaita ( literally , non-duality ) is a system of thought where `` Advaita '' refers to the identity of the Self ( Atman ) and the Whole ( Brahman ) .	In these commentaries , he proposed the theory of Advaita , saying that the Upanishad actually teach that the individual soul ( called Atman ) is not different from God ( called Brahman ) .	1
Advaita ( literally , non-duality ) is a system of thought where `` Advaita '' refers to the identity of the Self ( Atman ) and the Whole ( Brahman ) .	He also taught that there is only one essential principle called Brahman ( means God ) and everything else is a kind of expression of that one Brahman .	0
Advaita ( literally , non-duality ) is a system of thought where `` Advaita '' refers to the identity of the Self ( Atman ) and the Whole ( Brahman ) .	Because of this theory of one being , his teachings became popular as the `` Advaita '' ( a = not , dvaita = two , means no-two or non-dual ) .	1
Advaita ( literally , non-duality ) is a system of thought where `` Advaita '' refers to the identity of the Self ( Atman ) and the Whole ( Brahman ) .	The way he said this to people was `` Atman is Brahman . ''	0
Essential - Brahman is the basis of this created world .	Adi Sankara learned the sacred texts of Hinduism , like Vedas and Upanishads under his teacher Govinda Bhagavadpada and later wrote extensive commentaries of Hindu sacred texts called Upanishads .	0
Essential - Brahman is the basis of this created world .	In these commentaries , he proposed the theory of Advaita , saying that the Upanishad actually teach that the individual soul ( called Atman ) is not different from God ( called Brahman ) .	0
Essential - Brahman is the basis of this created world .	He also taught that there is only one essential principle called Brahman ( means God ) and everything else is a kind of expression of that one Brahman .	1
Essential - Brahman is the basis of this created world .	Because of this theory of one being , his teachings became popular as the `` Advaita '' ( a = not , dvaita = two , means no-two or non-dual ) .	0
Slowly , the difference between the worshipper and the worshipped decreases and upon true knowledge , liberation occurs .	Shankara said that our ignorance makes us feel very separate from God , and even from everything around us .	0
Slowly , the difference between the worshipper and the worshipped decreases and upon true knowledge , liberation occurs .	Shankara suggested that the best way people can find the truth is for them to try to clear their thinking of all ignorant thoughts , be very good , and think very hard about who they really are .	0
Slowly , the difference between the worshipper and the worshipped decreases and upon true knowledge , liberation occurs .	He said that if a person did all these things he would realize that God was himself all along .	1
Slowly , the difference between the worshipper and the worshipped decreases and upon true knowledge , liberation occurs .	This is a very different idea from some other religions where we are told we are separate from God and need to go to Him .	0
When Maya is removed , there exists ultimately no difference between the Jiva and Brahman ( Isvara ) .	Shankara said that our ignorance makes us feel very separate from God , and even from everything around us .	0
When Maya is removed , there exists ultimately no difference between the Jiva and Brahman ( Isvara ) .	Shankara suggested that the best way people can find the truth is for them to try to clear their thinking of all ignorant thoughts , be very good , and think very hard about who they really are .	0
When Maya is removed , there exists ultimately no difference between the Jiva and Brahman ( Isvara ) .	He said that if a person did all these things he would realize that God was himself all along .	1
When Maya is removed , there exists ultimately no difference between the Jiva and Brahman ( Isvara ) .	This is a very different idea from some other religions where we are told we are separate from God and need to go to Him .	0
Advaitins believe that suffering is due to Maya ( also known as Mithya or Vaitathya ) , and only knowledge ( called Jnana ) of Brahman can destroy Maya .	Adi Shankara was very smart and knew that people would wonder how he could say such an odd thing .	0
Advaitins believe that suffering is due to Maya ( also known as Mithya or Vaitathya ) , and only knowledge ( called Jnana ) of Brahman can destroy Maya .	He realized that many people would ask him , `` If a person 's soul is really one with God all along , then what makes a person feel so separate from God ? ''	0
Advaitins believe that suffering is due to Maya ( also known as Mithya or Vaitathya ) , and only knowledge ( called Jnana ) of Brahman can destroy Maya .	His answer to this was that we are ignorant of our real self being God because we see through a kind of filter -- like looking through a dirty piece of glass -- and he called this filter we look through , maya , which means `` illusion '' in Sanskrit .	1
Advaitins believe that suffering is due to Maya ( also known as Mithya or Vaitathya ) , and only knowledge ( called Jnana ) of Brahman can destroy Maya .	Shankara said that our ignorance makes us feel very separate from God , and even from everything around us .	0
Adi Shankara uses a metaphor that when the `` reflection '' of the Cosmic Spirit falls upon the mirror of Maya , it appears as the Ishvara or Supreme Lord .	Adi Shankara was very smart and knew that people would wonder how he could say such an odd thing .	0
Adi Shankara uses a metaphor that when the `` reflection '' of the Cosmic Spirit falls upon the mirror of Maya , it appears as the Ishvara or Supreme Lord .	He realized that many people would ask him , `` If a person 's soul is really one with God all along , then what makes a person feel so separate from God ? ''	0
Adi Shankara uses a metaphor that when the `` reflection '' of the Cosmic Spirit falls upon the mirror of Maya , it appears as the Ishvara or Supreme Lord .	His answer to this was that we are ignorant of our real self being God because we see through a kind of filter -- like looking through a dirty piece of glass -- and he called this filter we look through , maya , which means `` illusion '' in Sanskrit .	1
Adi Shankara uses a metaphor that when the `` reflection '' of the Cosmic Spirit falls upon the mirror of Maya , it appears as the Ishvara or Supreme Lord .	Shankara said that our ignorance makes us feel very separate from God , and even from everything around us .	0
The category illusion in this system is unreal only from the viewpoint of the absolutely real and is different from the category of the Absolutely unreal .	Adi Shankara was very smart and knew that people would wonder how he could say such an odd thing .	0
The category illusion in this system is unreal only from the viewpoint of the absolutely real and is different from the category of the Absolutely unreal .	He realized that many people would ask him , `` If a person 's soul is really one with God all along , then what makes a person feel so separate from God ? ''	0
The category illusion in this system is unreal only from the viewpoint of the absolutely real and is different from the category of the Absolutely unreal .	His answer to this was that we are ignorant of our real self being God because we see through a kind of filter -- like looking through a dirty piece of glass -- and he called this filter we look through , maya , which means `` illusion '' in Sanskrit .	1
The category illusion in this system is unreal only from the viewpoint of the absolutely real and is different from the category of the Absolutely unreal .	Shankara said that our ignorance makes us feel very separate from God , and even from everything around us .	0
Perceptible feeling - many people , when they achieve the turīya state , claim that their soul has become one with everything else .	Shankara said that our ignorance makes us feel very separate from God , and even from everything around us .	0
Perceptible feeling - many people , when they achieve the turīya state , claim that their soul has become one with everything else .	Shankara suggested that the best way people can find the truth is for them to try to clear their thinking of all ignorant thoughts , be very good , and think very hard about who they really are .	0
Perceptible feeling - many people , when they achieve the turīya state , claim that their soul has become one with everything else .	He said that if a person did all these things he would realize that God was himself all along .	1
Perceptible feeling - many people , when they achieve the turīya state , claim that their soul has become one with everything else .	This is a very different idea from some other religions where we are told we are separate from God and need to go to Him .	0
Devotion ( Bhakti ) will cancel the effects of bad Karma and will bring a person closer to the true knowledge by purifying his mind .	His answer to this was that we are ignorant of our real self being God because we see through a kind of filter -- like looking through a dirty piece of glass -- and he called this filter we look through , maya , which means `` illusion '' in Sanskrit .	0
Devotion ( Bhakti ) will cancel the effects of bad Karma and will bring a person closer to the true knowledge by purifying his mind .	Shankara said that our ignorance makes us feel very separate from God , and even from everything around us .	0
Devotion ( Bhakti ) will cancel the effects of bad Karma and will bring a person closer to the true knowledge by purifying his mind .	Shankara suggested that the best way people can find the truth is for them to try to clear their thinking of all ignorant thoughts , be very good , and think very hard about who they really are .	1
Devotion ( Bhakti ) will cancel the effects of bad Karma and will bring a person closer to the true knowledge by purifying his mind .	He said that if a person did all these things he would realize that God was himself all along .	0
Mahavakya , or `` the great sentences '' , state the unity of Brahman and Atman .	He also taught that there is only one essential principle called Brahman ( means God ) and everything else is a kind of expression of that one Brahman .	0
Mahavakya , or `` the great sentences '' , state the unity of Brahman and Atman .	Because of this theory of one being , his teachings became popular as the `` Advaita '' ( a = not , dvaita = two , means no-two or non-dual ) .	0
Mahavakya , or `` the great sentences '' , state the unity of Brahman and Atman .	The way he said this to people was `` Atman is Brahman . ''	1
Mahavakya , or `` the great sentences '' , state the unity of Brahman and Atman .	Adi Shankara was very smart and knew that people would wonder how he could say such an odd thing .	0
Other than Brahman , everything else , including the universe , material objects and individuals , are false .	Adi Sankara learned the sacred texts of Hinduism , like Vedas and Upanishads under his teacher Govinda Bhagavadpada and later wrote extensive commentaries of Hindu sacred texts called Upanishads .	0
Other than Brahman , everything else , including the universe , material objects and individuals , are false .	In these commentaries , he proposed the theory of Advaita , saying that the Upanishad actually teach that the individual soul ( called Atman ) is not different from God ( called Brahman ) .	0
Other than Brahman , everything else , including the universe , material objects and individuals , are false .	He also taught that there is only one essential principle called Brahman ( means God ) and everything else is a kind of expression of that one Brahman .	1
Other than Brahman , everything else , including the universe , material objects and individuals , are false .	Because of this theory of one being , his teachings became popular as the `` Advaita '' ( a = not , dvaita = two , means no-two or non-dual ) .	0
According to Adi Shankara , Atman = Brahman .	He also taught that there is only one essential principle called Brahman ( means God ) and everything else is a kind of expression of that one Brahman .	0
According to Adi Shankara , Atman = Brahman .	Because of this theory of one being , his teachings became popular as the `` Advaita '' ( a = not , dvaita = two , means no-two or non-dual ) .	0
According to Adi Shankara , Atman = Brahman .	The way he said this to people was `` Atman is Brahman . ''	1
According to Adi Shankara , Atman = Brahman .	Adi Shankara was very smart and knew that people would wonder how he could say such an odd thing .	0
The key source texts for all schools of Vedānta are the Prasthanatrayi-the canonical texts consisting of the Upanishads , the Bhagavad Gita and the Brahma Sutras .	The Sanskrit word for soul is Atman and the Sanskrit word for God is Brahman .	0
The key source texts for all schools of Vedānta are the Prasthanatrayi-the canonical texts consisting of the Upanishads , the Bhagavad Gita and the Brahma Sutras .	The most famous Hindu philosopher was named Adi Shankara who lived in India more than a thousand years ago .	0
The key source texts for all schools of Vedānta are the Prasthanatrayi-the canonical texts consisting of the Upanishads , the Bhagavad Gita and the Brahma Sutras .	Adi Sankara learned the sacred texts of Hinduism , like Vedas and Upanishads under his teacher Govinda Bhagavadpada and later wrote extensive commentaries of Hindu sacred texts called Upanishads .	1
The first person to explicitly consolidate the principles of Advaita Vedanta was Shankara Bhagavadpada , while the first historical proponent was Gaudapada , the guru of Shankara 's guru Govinda Bhagavatpada .	His answer to this was that we are ignorant of our real self being God because we see through a kind of filter -- like looking through a dirty piece of glass -- and he called this filter we look through , maya , which means `` illusion '' in Sanskrit .	0
The key source texts for all schools of Vedānta are the Prasthanatrayi-the canonical texts consisting of the Upanishads , the Bhagavad Gita and the Brahma Sutras .	In these commentaries , he proposed the theory of Advaita , saying that the Upanishad actually teach that the individual soul ( called Atman ) is not different from God ( called Brahman ) .	0
Whenever we talk about Brahman , we are in fact talking about God .	Advaita Vedanta is a type of Hinduism .	0
Whenever we talk about Brahman , we are in fact talking about God .	People who believe in Advaita believe that their soul is never really different from God .	0
Whenever we talk about Brahman , we are in fact talking about God .	The Sanskrit word for soul is Atman and the Sanskrit word for God is Brahman .	1
Whenever we talk about Brahman , we are in fact talking about God .	The most famous Hindu philosopher was named Adi Shankara who lived in India more than a thousand years ago .	0
According to Adi Shankara , God , the Supreme Cosmic Spirit or Brahman is the One , the whole and the only reality ( Paramarthika Satyam ) .	Adi Sankara learned the sacred texts of Hinduism , like Vedas and Upanishads under his teacher Govinda Bhagavadpada and later wrote extensive commentaries of Hindu sacred texts called Upanishads .	0
According to Adi Shankara , God , the Supreme Cosmic Spirit or Brahman is the One , the whole and the only reality ( Paramarthika Satyam ) .	In these commentaries , he proposed the theory of Advaita , saying that the Upanishad actually teach that the individual soul ( called Atman ) is not different from God ( called Brahman ) .	0
According to Adi Shankara , God , the Supreme Cosmic Spirit or Brahman is the One , the whole and the only reality ( Paramarthika Satyam ) .	He also taught that there is only one essential principle called Brahman ( means God ) and everything else is a kind of expression of that one Brahman .	1
According to Adi Shankara , God , the Supreme Cosmic Spirit or Brahman is the One , the whole and the only reality ( Paramarthika Satyam ) .	Because of this theory of one being , his teachings became popular as the `` Advaita '' ( a = not , dvaita = two , means no-two or non-dual ) .	0
Johannes Brahms , César Franck , and Gabriel Fauré wrote violin sonatas in A major .	Mozart used clarinets in A major often .	0
Johannes Brahms , César Franck , and Gabriel Fauré wrote violin sonatas in A major .	In chamber music , A major is used a lot .	0
Johannes Brahms , César Franck , and Gabriel Fauré wrote violin sonatas in A major .	Johannes Brahms , César Franck , and Gabriel Fauré wrote violin sonatas in A major .	1
Johannes Brahms , César Franck , and Gabriel Fauré wrote violin sonatas in A major .	Peter Cropper said that A major `` is the fullest sounding key for the violin . ''	0
According to Christian Friedrich Daniel Schubart , A major is a key suitable for `` declarations of innocent love , ... hope of seeing one 's beloved again when parting ; youthful cheerfulness and trust in God . ''	Peter Cropper said that A major `` is the fullest sounding key for the violin . ''	0
According to Christian Friedrich Daniel Schubart , A major is a key suitable for `` declarations of innocent love , ... hope of seeing one 's beloved again when parting ; youthful cheerfulness and trust in God . ''	, when he was talking about Beethoven 's Kreutzer Sonata .	0
According to Christian Friedrich Daniel Schubart , A major is a key suitable for `` declarations of innocent love , ... hope of seeing one 's beloved again when parting ; youthful cheerfulness and trust in God . ''	According to Christian Friedrich Daniel Schubart , A major is a key that is good for `` declarations of innocent love , ... hope of seeing one 's beloved again when parting ; youthful cheerfulness and trust in God . ''	1
According to Christian Friedrich Daniel Schubart , A major is a key suitable for `` declarations of innocent love , ... hope of seeing one 's beloved again when parting ; youthful cheerfulness and trust in God . ''	When music for orchestra is in A major , the timpani are normally set to A and E a fifth apart .	0
A major ( or the key of A ) is a major scale based on A , with the pitches A , B , C ♯ , D , E , F ♯ , and G ♯ .	When music for orchestra is in A major , the timpani are normally set to A and E a fifth apart .	0
A major ( or the key of A ) is a major scale based on A , with the pitches A , B , C ♯ , D , E , F ♯ , and G ♯ .	In most other keys , they are set a fourth apart .	0
Its key signature has three sharps .	A major ( or the key of A ) is a major scale with a base note of A. Its key signature has three sharps .	1
Its key signature has three sharps .	Its relative minor is F-sharp minor .	0
In connection to Beethoven 's Kreutzer Sonata , Peter Cropper said that A major `` is the fullest sounding key for the violin . ''	In chamber music , A major is used a lot .	0
In connection to Beethoven 's Kreutzer Sonata , Peter Cropper said that A major `` is the fullest sounding key for the violin . ''	Johannes Brahms , César Franck , and Gabriel Fauré wrote violin sonatas in A major .	0
In connection to Beethoven 's Kreutzer Sonata , Peter Cropper said that A major `` is the fullest sounding key for the violin . ''	Peter Cropper said that A major `` is the fullest sounding key for the violin . ''	1
In connection to Beethoven 's Kreutzer Sonata , Peter Cropper said that A major `` is the fullest sounding key for the violin . ''	, when he was talking about Beethoven 's Kreutzer Sonata .	1
In connection to Beethoven 's Kreutzer Sonata , Peter Cropper said that A major `` is the fullest sounding key for the violin . ''	According to Christian Friedrich Daniel Schubart , A major is a key that is good for `` declarations of innocent love , ... hope of seeing one 's beloved again when parting ; youthful cheerfulness and trust in God . ''	0
The key of A major is the only key where a Neapolitan sixth chord on requires both a flat and a natural accidental .	A major ( or the key of A ) is a major scale with a base note of A. Its key signature has three sharps .	0
The key of A major is the only key where a Neapolitan sixth chord on requires both a flat and a natural accidental .	Its relative minor is F-sharp minor .	0
The key of A major is the only key where a Neapolitan sixth chord on requires both a flat and a natural accidental .	The key of A-major is the only key where a Neapolitan sixth chord on needs both a flat and a natural accidental .	1
The key of A major is the only key where a Neapolitan sixth chord on requires both a flat and a natural accidental .	There are not as many symphonies in A major as in D major or G major , but more than other sharp keys .	0
Mozart 's Clarinet Concerto and Clarinet Quintet are both in A major , and generally Mozart was more likely to use clarinets in A major than in any other key besides E-flat major .	There are not as many symphonies in A major as in D major or G major , but more than other sharp keys .	0
Mozart 's Clarinet Concerto and Clarinet Quintet are both in A major , and generally Mozart was more likely to use clarinets in A major than in any other key besides E-flat major .	Beethoven 's Symphony No. 7 , Bruckner 's Symphony No. 6 and Mendelssohn 's Symphony No. 4 are almost all the symphonies in this key in the Romantic era .	0
Mozart 's Clarinet Concerto and Clarinet Quintet are both in A major , and generally Mozart was more likely to use clarinets in A major than in any other key besides E-flat major .	Mozart 's Clarinet Concerto and Clarinet Quintet are both in A major .	1
Mozart 's Clarinet Concerto and Clarinet Quintet are both in A major , and generally Mozart was more likely to use clarinets in A major than in any other key besides E-flat major .	Mozart used clarinets in A major often .	1
Mozart 's Clarinet Concerto and Clarinet Quintet are both in A major , and generally Mozart was more likely to use clarinets in A major than in any other key besides E-flat major .	In chamber music , A major is used a lot .	0
Its key signature has three sharps .	In most other keys , they are set a fourth apart .	0
Its relative minor is F-sharp minor and its parallel minor is A minor .	A major ( or the key of A ) is a major scale with a base note of A. Its key signature has three sharps .	0
Its relative minor is F-sharp minor and its parallel minor is A minor .	Its relative minor is F-sharp minor .	1
Its relative minor is F-sharp minor and its parallel minor is A minor .	The key of A-major is the only key where a Neapolitan sixth chord on needs both a flat and a natural accidental .	0
Beethoven 's Symphony No. 7 , Bruckner 's Symphony No. 6 and Mendelssohn 's Symphony No. 4 comprise a nearly complete list of symphonies in this key in the Romantic era .	The key of A-major is the only key where a Neapolitan sixth chord on needs both a flat and a natural accidental .	0
Beethoven 's Symphony No. 7 , Bruckner 's Symphony No. 6 and Mendelssohn 's Symphony No. 4 comprise a nearly complete list of symphonies in this key in the Romantic era .	There are not as many symphonies in A major as in D major or G major , but more than other sharp keys .	0
Beethoven 's Symphony No. 7 , Bruckner 's Symphony No. 6 and Mendelssohn 's Symphony No. 4 comprise a nearly complete list of symphonies in this key in the Romantic era .	Beethoven 's Symphony No. 7 , Bruckner 's Symphony No. 6 and Mendelssohn 's Symphony No. 4 are almost all the symphonies in this key in the Romantic era .	1
Beethoven 's Symphony No. 7 , Bruckner 's Symphony No. 6 and Mendelssohn 's Symphony No. 4 comprise a nearly complete list of symphonies in this key in the Romantic era .	Mozart 's Clarinet Concerto and Clarinet Quintet are both in A major .	0
FFmpeg 's libavcodec library contains free software codecs for both encoding and decoding AAC ( encoding is experimental ) .	Note that easytag does not have the ability to add chapter points into Audiobooks ( .	0
FFmpeg 's libavcodec library contains free software codecs for both encoding and decoding AAC ( encoding is experimental ) .	m4b ) .	0
A major ( or the key of A ) is a major scale based on A , with the pitches A , B , C ♯ , D , E , F ♯ , and G ♯ .	A major ( or the key of A ) is a major scale with a base note of A. Its key signature has three sharps .	1
A major ( or the key of A ) is a major scale based on A , with the pitches A , B , C ♯ , D , E , F ♯ , and G ♯ .	Its relative minor is F-sharp minor .	0
Although not as rare in the symphonic literature as sharper keys , examples of symphonies in A major are not as numerous as for D major or G major .	Its relative minor is F-sharp minor .	0
Although not as rare in the symphonic literature as sharper keys , examples of symphonies in A major are not as numerous as for D major or G major .	The key of A-major is the only key where a Neapolitan sixth chord on needs both a flat and a natural accidental .	0
Although not as rare in the symphonic literature as sharper keys , examples of symphonies in A major are not as numerous as for D major or G major .	There are not as many symphonies in A major as in D major or G major , but more than other sharp keys .	1
Although not as rare in the symphonic literature as sharper keys , examples of symphonies in A major are not as numerous as for D major or G major .	Beethoven 's Symphony No. 7 , Bruckner 's Symphony No. 6 and Mendelssohn 's Symphony No. 4 are almost all the symphonies in this key in the Romantic era .	0
A major occurs frequently in chamber music .	Mozart 's Clarinet Concerto and Clarinet Quintet are both in A major .	0
A major occurs frequently in chamber music .	Mozart used clarinets in A major often .	0
A major occurs frequently in chamber music .	In chamber music , A major is used a lot .	1
A major occurs frequently in chamber music .	Johannes Brahms , César Franck , and Gabriel Fauré wrote violin sonatas in A major .	0
For orchestral works in A major , the timpani are typically set to A and E a fifth apart , rather than a fourth apart as for most other keys .	, when he was talking about Beethoven 's Kreutzer Sonata .	0
For orchestral works in A major , the timpani are typically set to A and E a fifth apart , rather than a fourth apart as for most other keys .	According to Christian Friedrich Daniel Schubart , A major is a key that is good for `` declarations of innocent love , ... hope of seeing one 's beloved again when parting ; youthful cheerfulness and trust in God . ''	0
For orchestral works in A major , the timpani are typically set to A and E a fifth apart , rather than a fourth apart as for most other keys .	When music for orchestra is in A major , the timpani are normally set to A and E a fifth apart .	1
For orchestral works in A major , the timpani are typically set to A and E a fifth apart , rather than a fourth apart as for most other keys .	In most other keys , they are set a fourth apart .	1
Hector Berlioz complained about the custom of his day in which timpani tuned to A and E a fifth apart were notated C and G a fourth apart , a custom which survived as late as the music of Franz Berwald .	A major ( or the key of A ) is a major scale with a base note of A. Its key signature has three sharps .	0
Only three films have won Best Picture without their directors being nominated ( though only one since the early 1930s ) : Wings ( 1927\/28 ) , Grand Hotel ( 1931\/32 ) , and Driving Miss Daisy ( 1989 ) .	Skippy - Paramount - Adolph Zukor .	0
Only three films have won Best Picture without their directors being nominated ( though only one since the early 1930s ) : Wings ( 1927\/28 ) , Grand Hotel ( 1931\/32 ) , and Driving Miss Daisy ( 1989 ) .	Trader Horn - Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer - Irving G. Thalberg .	0
Only three films have won Best Picture without their directors being nominated ( though only one since the early 1930s ) : Wings ( 1927\/28 ) , Grand Hotel ( 1931\/32 ) , and Driving Miss Daisy ( 1989 ) .	1931-32 Grand Hotel - Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer - Irving Thalberg .	1
Only three films have won Best Picture without their directors being nominated ( though only one since the early 1930s ) : Wings ( 1927\/28 ) , Grand Hotel ( 1931\/32 ) , and Driving Miss Daisy ( 1989 ) .	Arrowsmith - Goldwyn , United Artists - Samuel Goldwyn .	0
It followed from the principles on which this scale was constructed that its zero was placed at − 273.15 ° C , at almost precisely the same point as the zero of the air-thermometer .	This is because the efficiency ( percent of energy the engine uses up that is actually used to do the engine 's job ) is 100 % × ( 1-Toutside\/Tinside ) , which only is 100 % if the outside temperature is absolute zero which it ca n't be .	0
It followed from the principles on which this scale was constructed that its zero was placed at − 273.15 ° C , at almost precisely the same point as the zero of the air-thermometer .	So , an engine ca n't be 100 % efficient , but you can make its efficiency closer to 100 % by making the inside temperature hotter and\/or the outside temperature colder .	0
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) to artists working in the motion picture industry .	The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards .	1
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) to artists working in the motion picture industry .	Also called Oscars , the Academy Awards are given to people working in the movie industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) .	1
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) to artists working in the motion picture industry .	In the list below , the winner of the award for each year between 1930 and 1939 is shown first , followed by the other nominees .	0
Starting with the 7th Academy Awards , held in 1935 , the period of eligibility became the full previous calendar year from January 1 to December 31 .	The Wizard of Oz - Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer - Mervyn LeRoy .	0
Starting with the 7th Academy Awards , held in 1935 , the period of eligibility became the full previous calendar year from January 1 to December 31 .	Wuthering Heights - Goldwyn , United Artists - Samuel Goldwyn .	0
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) to artists working in the motion picture industry .	In the list below , the winner of the award for each year from 1950 to 1959 is shown first , followed by the other nominees .	0
For details on New Zealand Kauri , see Agathis australis The type of gastropod marine mollusc is spelled cowrie , while the New Zealand land mollusc is spelled Kauri .	Timber from the Agathis has several uses , including cabinet making , boat building , musical instruments , and in years past , artificial limbs .	0
For details on New Zealand Kauri , see Agathis australis The type of gastropod marine mollusc is spelled cowrie , while the New Zealand land mollusc is spelled Kauri .	It also produces a wide variety of resins .	0
The genus Agathis , commonly known as kauri or dammar , is a relatively small genus of 21 species of evergreen tree .	Agathis is a genus of evergreen , coniferous trees , the kauri .	1
The genus Agathis , commonly known as kauri or dammar , is a relatively small genus of 21 species of evergreen tree .	They grow mainly in the southern hemisphere , including southeast Asia , areas of the western Pacific , and Australasia .	0
The genus Agathis , commonly known as kauri or dammar , is a relatively small genus of 21 species of evergreen tree .	Agathis is a relatively small genus , with only 21 known species .	1
The genus Agathis , commonly known as kauri or dammar , is a relatively small genus of 21 species of evergreen tree .	As a conifer , it produces pine cones .	0
The plot was originally taken from - but partly altered for better conformity - Ludovico Ariosto 's Orlando furioso ( like those of the Handel operas Orlando and Ariodante ) , an epic poem set in the time of Charlemagne 's wars against Islam .	Bradamente and Ruggiero destroy an urn that is the source of Alcina 's power .	0
The plot was originally taken from - but partly altered for better conformity - Ludovico Ariosto 's Orlando furioso ( like those of the Handel operas Orlando and Ariodante ) , an epic poem set in the time of Charlemagne 's wars against Islam .	Alcina 's world disappears .	0
The background of the opera comes from the poem Orlando Furioso .	It was based on an episode in Ludovico Ariosto 's Orlando furioso , an epic poem set in the time of Charlemagne 's wars against Islam .	1
The background of the opera comes from the poem Orlando Furioso .	Handel composed several little ballets in the opera for the famous dancer Marie Sallé .	0
This story of faith has woven together the historical facts about Ayya Vaikundar and his activities with reinterpretations of episodes from the Hindu Puranas ( mythologies ) and Itihasas ( epics ) .	Then in 1939 it was given printed form .	0
This story of faith has woven together the historical facts about Ayya Vaikundar and his activities with reinterpretations of episodes from the Hindu Puranas ( mythologies ) and Itihasas ( epics ) .	According to the author , the book is the story of God coming in this age , the Kali Yukam or Iron Age , to rule the world by transforming it into that of Dharma Yukam .	0
This story of faith has woven together the historical facts about Ayya Vaikundar and his activities with reinterpretations of episodes from the Hindu Puranas ( mythologies ) and Itihasas ( epics ) .	This story of faith has woven together the historical facts about Ayya Vaikundar and his activities , with mixing of episodes from the Hindu Puranas ( mythologies ) and Itihasas ( epics ) .	1
This story of faith has woven together the historical facts about Ayya Vaikundar and his activities with reinterpretations of episodes from the Hindu Puranas ( mythologies ) and Itihasas ( epics ) .	It is presented as if Vishnu is telling the whole story to his consort Lakshmi .	0
According to the book , Akilam , Hari Gopalan Citar wrote this book on the twenty-seventh day of the Tamil month of Karthikai ( November\/December ) in the year 1841 CE .	The title is shortened as Akilam .	0
According to the book , Akilam , Hari Gopalan Citar wrote this book on the twenty-seventh day of the Tamil month of Karthikai ( November\/December ) in the year 1841 CE .	This is the largest Ammanai work .	0
According to the book , Akilam , Hari Gopalan Citar wrote this book on the twenty-seventh day of the Tamil month of Karthikai ( November\/December ) in the year 1841 CE .	According to the book , Hari Gopalan Citar wrote this book on the twenty-seventh day of the Tamil month of Karthikai ( November\/December ) in the year 1016 ME ( 1841 CE ) .	1
According to the book , Akilam , Hari Gopalan Citar wrote this book on the twenty-seventh day of the Tamil month of Karthikai ( November\/December ) in the year 1841 CE .	The author says that God woke him up during his sleep and ordered him to take the first words from what he said .	0
Akilathirattu was recorded on palm leaves until 1939 , when it was given printed form .	According to the book , Hari Gopalan Citar wrote this book on the twenty-seventh day of the Tamil month of Karthikai ( November\/December ) in the year 1016 ME ( 1841 CE ) .	0
Akilathirattu was recorded on palm leaves until 1939 , when it was given printed form .	The author says that God woke him up during his sleep and ordered him to take the first words from what he said .	0
Akilathirattu was recorded on palm leaves until 1939 , when it was given printed form .	Akilathirattu was recorded on palm leaves .	1
Akilathirattu was recorded on palm leaves until 1939 , when it was given printed form .	Then in 1939 it was given printed form .	1
Akilathirattu was recorded on palm leaves until 1939 , when it was given printed form .	According to the author , the book is the story of God coming in this age , the Kali Yukam or Iron Age , to rule the world by transforming it into that of Dharma Yukam .	0
According to the author , the book is the story of God coming in this age , the Kali Yukam or Iron Age , to rule the world by transforming it into the Dharma Yukam .	Then in 1939 it was given printed form .	0
According to the author , the book is the story of God coming in this age , the Kali Yukam or Iron Age , to rule the world by transforming it into the Dharma Yukam .	According to the author , the book is the story of God coming in this age , the Kali Yukam or Iron Age , to rule the world by transforming it into that of Dharma Yukam .	1
It is presented as if Vishnu is narrating the whole story to his consort Lakshmi .	It is presented as if Vishnu is telling the whole story to his consort Lakshmi .	1
It is presented as if Vishnu is narrating the whole story to his consort Lakshmi .	Though the Citar Hari Gopalan wrote the book Akilam , as per him , he did not know any thing about the contents of the book .	0
It is presented as if Vishnu is narrating the whole story to his consort Lakshmi .	According to the author , the book is the story of God coming in this age , the Kali Yukam or Iron Age , to rule the world by transforming it into that of Dharma Yukam .	0
It is presented as if Vishnu is narrating the whole story to his consort Lakshmi .	This story of faith has woven together the historical facts about Ayya Vaikundar and his activities , with mixing of episodes from the Hindu Puranas ( mythologies ) and Itihasas ( epics ) .	0
According to the author , the book is the story of God coming in this age , the Kali Yukam or Iron Age , to rule the world by transforming it into the Dharma Yukam .	Akilathirattu was recorded on palm leaves .	0
According to the author , the book is the story of God coming in this age , the Kali Yukam or Iron Age , to rule the world by transforming it into the Dharma Yukam .	This story of faith has woven together the historical facts about Ayya Vaikundar and his activities , with mixing of episodes from the Hindu Puranas ( mythologies ) and Itihasas ( epics ) .	0
As per the instructions found there in Akilam , Ayyavazhi was preached by the Citars far and wide .	As soon as Ayya Vaikundar attained Vaikundam , the tied-up palm leaf text , which was until then not opened .	0
As per the instructions found there in Akilam , Ayyavazhi was preached by the Citars far and wide .	It was there the regulations of Ayyavazhi contains .	0
As per the instructions found there in Akilam , Ayyavazhi was preached by the Citars far and wide .	As per the instructions found there in Akilam , Ayyavazhi was preached by the Citars far and wide .	1
Akilam is in two parts ; the first is an account of the ages preceding that of the present age , the Kali Yukam , and the second is an account of the activities of Ayya Vaikundar leading up to his attaining Vaikundam .	The title is shortened as Akilam .	0
The title is often abbreviated to Akilam or Akilathirattu .	As per the instructions found there in Akilam , Ayyavazhi was preached by the Citars far and wide .	0
Akilam including more than 15000 verses , is the largest Ammanai literature in Tamil and one among the largest works in Tamil which are contributed by a single author .	The title is shortened as Akilam .	0
Akilam including more than 15000 verses , is the largest Ammanai literature in Tamil and one among the largest works in Tamil which are contributed by a single author .	This is the largest Ammanai work .	1
Akilam including more than 15000 verses , is the largest Ammanai literature in Tamil and one among the largest works in Tamil which are contributed by a single author .	According to the book , Hari Gopalan Citar wrote this book on the twenty-seventh day of the Tamil month of Karthikai ( November\/December ) in the year 1016 ME ( 1841 CE ) .	1
Akilam including more than 15000 verses , is the largest Ammanai literature in Tamil and one among the largest works in Tamil which are contributed by a single author .	The author says that God woke him up during his sleep and ordered him to take the first words from what he said .	0
When Ayya Vaikundar died , the tied-up palm leaf manuscript , which was until then not opened , was unfolded .	Though the Citar Hari Gopalan wrote the book Akilam , as per him , he did not know any thing about the contents of the book .	0
When Ayya Vaikundar died , the tied-up palm leaf manuscript , which was until then not opened , was unfolded .	He woke up in the morning as usual and he did not know what he had written the day before .	0
When Ayya Vaikundar died , the tied-up palm leaf manuscript , which was until then not opened , was unfolded .	As soon as Ayya Vaikundar attained Vaikundam , the tied-up palm leaf text , which was until then not opened .	1
When Ayya Vaikundar died , the tied-up palm leaf manuscript , which was until then not opened , was unfolded .	It was there the regulations of Ayyavazhi contains .	0
The uses of the New Zealand species ( A. australis ) included shipbuilding , house construction , wood panelling , furniture making , mine braces , and railway sleepers .	Timber from the Agathis has several uses , including cabinet making , boat building , musical instruments , and in years past , artificial limbs .	0
The uses of the New Zealand species ( A. australis ) included shipbuilding , house construction , wood panelling , furniture making , mine braces , and railway sleepers .	It also produces a wide variety of resins .	0
The title is often abbreviated to Akilam or Akilathirattu .	The title is shortened as Akilam .	1
The title is often abbreviated to Akilam or Akilathirattu .	This is the largest Ammanai work .	0
He woke up in the morning as usual and he did n't know what he had written the day before .	It is presented as if Vishnu is telling the whole story to his consort Lakshmi .	0
He woke up in the morning as usual and he did n't know what he had written the day before .	Though the Citar Hari Gopalan wrote the book Akilam , as per him , he did not know any thing about the contents of the book .	0
He woke up in the morning as usual and he did n't know what he had written the day before .	He woke up in the morning as usual and he did not know what he had written the day before .	1
He woke up in the morning as usual and he did n't know what he had written the day before .	As soon as Ayya Vaikundar attained Vaikundam , the tied-up palm leaf text , which was until then not opened .	0
Though the Citar Hari Gopalan wrote the book Akilam , he claimed that he did not know any thing about the contents of the book .	This story of faith has woven together the historical facts about Ayya Vaikundar and his activities , with mixing of episodes from the Hindu Puranas ( mythologies ) and Itihasas ( epics ) .	0
Though the Citar Hari Gopalan wrote the book Akilam , he claimed that he did not know any thing about the contents of the book .	It is presented as if Vishnu is telling the whole story to his consort Lakshmi .	0
Though the Citar Hari Gopalan wrote the book Akilam , he claimed that he did not know any thing about the contents of the book .	Though the Citar Hari Gopalan wrote the book Akilam , as per him , he did not know any thing about the contents of the book .	1
Though the Citar Hari Gopalan wrote the book Akilam , he claimed that he did not know any thing about the contents of the book .	He woke up in the morning as usual and he did not know what he had written the day before .	0
It contained the regulations of the Ayyavazhi sect .	He woke up in the morning as usual and he did not know what he had written the day before .	0
It contained the regulations of the Ayyavazhi sect .	As soon as Ayya Vaikundar attained Vaikundam , the tied-up palm leaf text , which was until then not opened .	0
It contained the regulations of the Ayyavazhi sect .	It was there the regulations of Ayyavazhi contains .	1
It contained the regulations of the Ayyavazhi sect .	As per the instructions found there in Akilam , Ayyavazhi was preached by the Citars far and wide .	0
In the final instar , the thorns disappear and the larva may adopt one of three color morphs : green , brown , or yellow .	There is a row of black spots along each side of the body .	0
In the final instar , the thorns disappear and the larva may adopt one of three color morphs : green , brown , or yellow .	The blue or purple edges on the yellow stripes become thicker .	0
In the final instar , the thorns disappear and the larva may adopt one of three color morphs : green , brown , or yellow .	After it sheds its skin for the last time , it becomes even more yellow .	1
In the final instar , the thorns disappear and the larva may adopt one of three color morphs : green , brown , or yellow .	All of the colors are brighter .	0
The corporation is funded by an annual payment from the investment returns of the Australian Government 's Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Land Account .	It raised popular support for Aboriginal land rights .	0
The corporation is funded by an annual payment from the investment returns of the Australian Government 's Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Land Account .	Supporters in the cities rallied for the Gurindji and eventually they won title to part of their land .	0
Absolute zero is the theoretical temperature at which entropy reaches its minimum value .	In theory , absolute zero is the temperature where the particles of matter stop moving .	1
Absolute zero is the theoretical temperature at which entropy reaches its minimum value .	Absolute zero is impossible to achieve , because all particles move , even if it is just a small vibration .	0
The zero point of any thermodynamic temperature scale , such as Kelvin or Rankine , is set at absolute zero .	Even getting close to absolute zero is difficult because anything that touches an object being cooled near absolute zero would give heat to the objects .	0
The zero point of any thermodynamic temperature scale , such as Kelvin or Rankine , is set at absolute zero .	Scientists use lasers to slow atoms when cooling objects to very low temperatures .	0
The zero point of any thermodynamic temperature scale , such as Kelvin or Rankine , is set at absolute zero .	The Kelvin and Rankine temperature scales are defined so that absolute zero is 0 kelvins ( K ) or 0 degrees Rankine ( ° R ) .	1
The zero point of any thermodynamic temperature scale , such as Kelvin or Rankine , is set at absolute zero .	The Celsius and Fahrenheit scales are defined so that absolute zero is − 273.15 ° C or − 459.67 ° F. At this stage the pressure of the particles is zero .	0
By international agreement , absolute zero is defined as 0K on the Kelvin scale and as − 273.15 ° on the Celsius scale .	Even getting close to absolute zero is difficult because anything that touches an object being cooled near absolute zero would give heat to the objects .	0
By international agreement , absolute zero is defined as 0K on the Kelvin scale and as − 273.15 ° on the Celsius scale .	Scientists use lasers to slow atoms when cooling objects to very low temperatures .	0
By international agreement , absolute zero is defined as 0K on the Kelvin scale and as − 273.15 ° on the Celsius scale .	The Kelvin and Rankine temperature scales are defined so that absolute zero is 0 kelvins ( K ) or 0 degrees Rankine ( ° R ) .	1
By international agreement , absolute zero is defined as 0K on the Kelvin scale and as − 273.15 ° on the Celsius scale .	The Celsius and Fahrenheit scales are defined so that absolute zero is − 273.15 ° C or − 459.67 ° F. At this stage the pressure of the particles is zero .	1
By international agreement , absolute zero is defined as 0K on the Kelvin scale and as − 273.15 ° on the Celsius scale .	If we plot a graph to it , we can see that the temperature of the particles is zero .	0
Scientists have achieved temperatures very close to absolute zero , where matter exhibits quantum effects such as superconductivity and superfluidity .	In theory , absolute zero is the temperature where the particles of matter stop moving .	0
Scientists have achieved temperatures very close to absolute zero , where matter exhibits quantum effects such as superconductivity and superfluidity .	Absolute zero is impossible to achieve , because all particles move , even if it is just a small vibration .	0
Scientists have achieved temperatures very close to absolute zero , where matter exhibits quantum effects such as superconductivity and superfluidity .	Some people have created temperatures very close to absolute zero , but the record temperature was 100 pK ( Picokelvin ) above absolute zero .	1
Scientists have achieved temperatures very close to absolute zero , where matter exhibits quantum effects such as superconductivity and superfluidity .	Even getting close to absolute zero is difficult because anything that touches an object being cooled near absolute zero would give heat to the objects .	0
Scientists have achieved temperatures very close to absolute zero , where matter exhibits quantum effects such as superconductivity and superfluidity .	The temperature can not go down any further .	0
Scientists have achieved temperatures very close to absolute zero , where matter exhibits quantum effects such as superconductivity and superfluidity .	Also , the particles can not move in `` reverse '' either because as the movement of particles is vibration , vibrating in reverse would be nothing but simply vibrating again .	0
Scientists have achieved temperatures very close to absolute zero , where matter exhibits quantum effects such as superconductivity and superfluidity .	The closer the temperature of an object gets to absolute zero , the less resistive the material is to electricity therefore it will conduct electricity almost perfectly , with no measurable resistance .	1
Scientists have achieved temperatures very close to absolute zero , where matter exhibits quantum effects such as superconductivity and superfluidity .	The Third Law of Thermodynamics says that nothing can ever have a temperature of absolute zero .	0
This close approximation to the modern value of − 273.15 ° C for the zero of the air-thermometer was further improved upon in 1779 by Johann Heinrich Lambert , who observed that − 270 ° C might be regarded as absolute cold .	Scientists use lasers to slow atoms when cooling objects to very low temperatures .	0
This close approximation to the modern value of − 273.15 ° C for the zero of the air-thermometer was further improved upon in 1779 by Johann Heinrich Lambert , who observed that − 270 ° C might be regarded as absolute cold .	The Kelvin and Rankine temperature scales are defined so that absolute zero is 0 kelvins ( K ) or 0 degrees Rankine ( ° R ) .	0
This close approximation to the modern value of − 273.15 ° C for the zero of the air-thermometer was further improved upon in 1779 by Johann Heinrich Lambert , who observed that − 270 ° C might be regarded as absolute cold .	The Celsius and Fahrenheit scales are defined so that absolute zero is − 273.15 ° C or − 459.67 ° F. At this stage the pressure of the particles is zero .	1
This close approximation to the modern value of − 273.15 ° C for the zero of the air-thermometer was further improved upon in 1779 by Johann Heinrich Lambert , who observed that − 270 ° C might be regarded as absolute cold .	If we plot a graph to it , we can see that the temperature of the particles is zero .	0
The kinetic energy of the ground state can not be removed .	This is because the efficiency ( percent of energy the engine uses up that is actually used to do the engine 's job ) is 100 % × ( 1-Toutside\/Tinside ) , which only is 100 % if the outside temperature is absolute zero which it ca n't be .	0
The kinetic energy of the ground state can not be removed .	So , an engine ca n't be 100 % efficient , but you can make its efficiency closer to 100 % by making the inside temperature hotter and\/or the outside temperature colder .	0
However , in the classical interpretation it is zero and the thermal energy of matter vanishes .	In theory , absolute zero is the temperature where the particles of matter stop moving .	1
However , in the classical interpretation it is zero and the thermal energy of matter vanishes .	Absolute zero is impossible to achieve , because all particles move , even if it is just a small vibration .	0
This equates to − 459.67 ° on the Fahrenheit scale and 0 R on the Rankine scale .	Even getting close to absolute zero is difficult because anything that touches an object being cooled near absolute zero would give heat to the objects .	0
This equates to − 459.67 ° on the Fahrenheit scale and 0 R on the Rankine scale .	Scientists use lasers to slow atoms when cooling objects to very low temperatures .	0
This equates to − 459.67 ° on the Fahrenheit scale and 0 R on the Rankine scale .	The Kelvin and Rankine temperature scales are defined so that absolute zero is 0 kelvins ( K ) or 0 degrees Rankine ( ° R ) .	1
This equates to − 459.67 ° on the Fahrenheit scale and 0 R on the Rankine scale .	The Celsius and Fahrenheit scales are defined so that absolute zero is − 273.15 ° C or − 459.67 ° F. At this stage the pressure of the particles is zero .	1
This equates to − 459.67 ° on the Fahrenheit scale and 0 R on the Rankine scale .	If we plot a graph to it , we can see that the temperature of the particles is zero .	0
Absolute zero is the theoretical temperature at which entropy reaches its minimum value .	So , an engine ca n't be 100 % efficient , but you can make its efficiency closer to 100 % by making the inside temperature hotter and\/or the outside temperature colder .	0
The laws of thermodynamics state that absolute zero can not be reached using only thermodynamic means .	In theory , absolute zero is the temperature where the particles of matter stop moving .	0
The laws of thermodynamics state that absolute zero can not be reached using only thermodynamic means .	Absolute zero is impossible to achieve , because all particles move , even if it is just a small vibration .	1
The laws of thermodynamics state that absolute zero can not be reached using only thermodynamic means .	Some people have created temperatures very close to absolute zero , but the record temperature was 100 pK ( Picokelvin ) above absolute zero .	0
The laws of thermodynamics state that absolute zero can not be reached using only thermodynamic means .	Also , the particles can not move in `` reverse '' either because as the movement of particles is vibration , vibrating in reverse would be nothing but simply vibrating again .	0
The laws of thermodynamics state that absolute zero can not be reached using only thermodynamic means .	The closer the temperature of an object gets to absolute zero , the less resistive the material is to electricity therefore it will conduct electricity almost perfectly , with no measurable resistance .	0
The laws of thermodynamics state that absolute zero can not be reached using only thermodynamic means .	The Third Law of Thermodynamics says that nothing can ever have a temperature of absolute zero .	1
The laws of thermodynamics state that absolute zero can not be reached using only thermodynamic means .	The Second Law of Thermodynamics says that all engines that are powered by heat ( like car engines and steam train engines ) must release waste heat and ca n't be 100 % efficient .	0
AAC is also the default or standard audio format for YouTube , iPhone , iPod , iPad , Nintendo DSi , iTunes , DivX Plus Web Player and PlayStation 3 .	AAC is a file format for storing music or other sounds .	0
AAC is also the default or standard audio format for YouTube , iPhone , iPod , iPad , Nintendo DSi , iTunes , DivX Plus Web Player and PlayStation 3 .	It stands for Advanced Audio Coding or Advanced Audio Codec .	0
AAC is also the default or standard audio format for YouTube , iPhone , iPod , iPad , Nintendo DSi , iTunes , DivX Plus Web Player and PlayStation 3 .	It is used by Apple Inc. in the iPod and iTunes .	1
AAC is also the default or standard audio format for YouTube , iPhone , iPod , iPad , Nintendo DSi , iTunes , DivX Plus Web Player and PlayStation 3 .	AAC is one of the standard formats that comes from the MPEG organization , the same people who invented MP3 .	1
AAC is also the default or standard audio format for YouTube , iPhone , iPod , iPad , Nintendo DSi , iTunes , DivX Plus Web Player and PlayStation 3 .	There are several flavors of AAC .	0
Designed to be the successor of the MP3 format , AAC generally achieves better sound quality than MP3 at similar bit rates .	It stands for Advanced Audio Coding or Advanced Audio Codec .	0
Designed to be the successor of the MP3 format , AAC generally achieves better sound quality than MP3 at similar bit rates .	It is used by Apple Inc. in the iPod and iTunes .	0
Designed to be the successor of the MP3 format , AAC generally achieves better sound quality than MP3 at similar bit rates .	AAC is one of the standard formats that comes from the MPEG organization , the same people who invented MP3 .	1
Designed to be the successor of the MP3 format , AAC generally achieves better sound quality than MP3 at similar bit rates .	There are several flavors of AAC .	0
Although having never won a race , A1 Team Australia had the fastest pit crew of all teams .	That race was change to a Superleague Formula race .	0
Although having never won a race , A1 Team Australia had the fastest pit crew of all teams .	This ended the hopes the season would start and also put the future of the series in doubt .	0
Advanced Audio Coding ( AAC ) is a standardized , lossy compression and encoding scheme for digital audio .	AAC is a file format for storing music or other sounds .	1
Advanced Audio Coding ( AAC ) is a standardized , lossy compression and encoding scheme for digital audio .	It stands for Advanced Audio Coding or Advanced Audio Codec .	1
Advanced Audio Coding ( AAC ) is a standardized , lossy compression and encoding scheme for digital audio .	It is used by Apple Inc. in the iPod and iTunes .	0
Advanced Audio Coding ( AAC ) is a standardized , lossy compression and encoding scheme for digital audio .	AAC is one of the standard formats that comes from the MPEG organization , the same people who invented MP3 .	1
Advanced Audio Coding ( AAC ) is a standardized , lossy compression and encoding scheme for digital audio .	There are several flavors of AAC .	0
In April 2003 , Apple brought mainstream attention to AAC by announcing that its iTunes and iPod products would support songs in MPEG-4 AAC format ( via a firmware update for older iPods ) .	AAC is a file format for storing music or other sounds .	0
In April 2003 , Apple brought mainstream attention to AAC by announcing that its iTunes and iPod products would support songs in MPEG-4 AAC format ( via a firmware update for older iPods ) .	It stands for Advanced Audio Coding or Advanced Audio Codec .	0
In April 2003 , Apple brought mainstream attention to AAC by announcing that its iTunes and iPod products would support songs in MPEG-4 AAC format ( via a firmware update for older iPods ) .	It is used by Apple Inc. in the iPod and iTunes .	1
In April 2003 , Apple brought mainstream attention to AAC by announcing that its iTunes and iPod products would support songs in MPEG-4 AAC format ( via a firmware update for older iPods ) .	AAC is one of the standard formats that comes from the MPEG organization , the same people who invented MP3 .	0
AAC has been standardized by ISO and IEC , as part of the MPEG-2 and MPEG-4 specifications .	It stands for Advanced Audio Coding or Advanced Audio Codec .	0
AAC has been standardized by ISO and IEC , as part of the MPEG-2 and MPEG-4 specifications .	It is used by Apple Inc. in the iPod and iTunes .	0
AAC has been standardized by ISO and IEC , as part of the MPEG-2 and MPEG-4 specifications .	AAC is one of the standard formats that comes from the MPEG organization , the same people who invented MP3 .	1
AAC has been standardized by ISO and IEC , as part of the MPEG-2 and MPEG-4 specifications .	There are several flavors of AAC .	0
Part of the AAC known as High-Efficiency Advanced Audio Coding ( HE-AAC ) which is part of MPEG-4 Audio is also adopted into digital radio standards like DAB + and Digital Radio Mondiale , as well as mobile television standards DVB-H and ATSC-M\/H .	There are several flavors of AAC .	0
Part of the AAC known as High-Efficiency Advanced Audio Coding ( HE-AAC ) which is part of MPEG-4 Audio is also adopted into digital radio standards like DAB + and Digital Radio Mondiale , as well as mobile television standards DVB-H and ATSC-M\/H .	These are the most popular : AAC LC-the format used by Apple software ; it takes up more space and is used for music stored on an iPod , CD-ROM , or disk drive .	0
Part of the AAC known as High-Efficiency Advanced Audio Coding ( HE-AAC ) which is part of MPEG-4 Audio is also adopted into digital radio standards like DAB + and Digital Radio Mondiale , as well as mobile television standards DVB-H and ATSC-M\/H .	HE-AAC v1-a more efficient format ; it saves space for music sent over a network , like over the Internet or to a cell phone .	1
Part of the AAC known as High-Efficiency Advanced Audio Coding ( HE-AAC ) which is part of MPEG-4 Audio is also adopted into digital radio standards like DAB + and Digital Radio Mondiale , as well as mobile television standards DVB-H and ATSC-M\/H .	Brand names for this format include aacPlus ™ , Nero Digital ™ , and AAC + .	0
Advanced Audio Coding is designed to be the successor of the MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3 , known as MP3 format , which was specified by ISO\/IEC in 11172-3 ( MPEG-1 Audio ) and 13818-3 ( MPEG-2 Audio ) .	It stands for Advanced Audio Coding or Advanced Audio Codec .	0
Advanced Audio Coding is designed to be the successor of the MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3 , known as MP3 format , which was specified by ISO\/IEC in 11172-3 ( MPEG-1 Audio ) and 13818-3 ( MPEG-2 Audio ) .	It is used by Apple Inc. in the iPod and iTunes .	0
Advanced Audio Coding is designed to be the successor of the MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3 , known as MP3 format , which was specified by ISO\/IEC in 11172-3 ( MPEG-1 Audio ) and 13818-3 ( MPEG-2 Audio ) .	AAC is one of the standard formats that comes from the MPEG organization , the same people who invented MP3 .	1
Advanced Audio Coding is designed to be the successor of the MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3 , known as MP3 format , which was specified by ISO\/IEC in 11172-3 ( MPEG-1 Audio ) and 13818-3 ( MPEG-2 Audio ) .	There are several flavors of AAC .	0
On the European stage , Fiorentina won the UEFA Cup Winners ' Cup in 1960-61 and lost the final one year later .	Founded in 1926 .	0
On the European stage , Fiorentina won the UEFA Cup Winners ' Cup in 1960-61 and lost the final one year later .	Fiorentina have won Serie A twice , first in 1955\/56 then again in 1968\/69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies .	0
On the European stage , Fiorentina won the UEFA Cup Winners ' Cup in 1960-61 and lost the final one year later .	On the European stage Fiorentina have won the UEFA Cup Winners ' Cup in 1960\/61 , they finished runners-up in the UEFA Cup 1989\/90 and they also came close to winning the biggest European prize , finishing as runners-up in the European Cup during 1956\/57 .	1
On the European stage , Fiorentina won the UEFA Cup Winners ' Cup in 1960-61 and lost the final one year later .	1926-2002 AC Fiorentina .	0
Fiorentina are known widely by the nickname Viola , a reference to their distinctive purple colors .	Fiorentina is known by the nickname La viola ; a reference to their distinctive purple colors .	1
Associazione Calcio Fiorentina was founded in the autumn of 1926 by local noble and National Fascist Party member Luigi Ridolfi , who initiated the merger of two older Florentine clubs , CS Firenze and PG Libertas .	ACF Fiorentina ( Associazione Calcio Fiorentina e Florentia Viola ) , often called just and friendly Fiorentina , is an Italian professional football club from Florence , Tuscany .	0
Associazione Calcio Fiorentina was founded in the autumn of 1926 by local noble and National Fascist Party member Luigi Ridolfi , who initiated the merger of two older Florentine clubs , CS Firenze and PG Libertas .	Founded in 1926 .	1
Associazione Calcio Fiorentina was founded in the autumn of 1926 by local noble and National Fascist Party member Luigi Ridolfi , who initiated the merger of two older Florentine clubs , CS Firenze and PG Libertas .	Fiorentina have won Serie A twice , first in 1955\/56 then again in 1968\/69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies .	0
With Trapattoni 's expert guidance and Batistuta 's goals , Fiorentina challenged for the title in 1998-99 but finished the season in third , earning them qualification for the Champions League .	1926-2002 AC Fiorentina .	0
With Trapattoni 's expert guidance and Batistuta 's goals , Fiorentina challenged for the title in 1998-99 but finished the season in third , earning them qualification for the Champions League .	2002-2003 Florentia Viola .	0
With Trapattoni 's expert guidance and Batistuta 's goals , Fiorentina challenged for the title in 1998-99 but finished the season in third , earning them qualification for the Champions League .	2003-present ACF Fiorentina .	1
With Trapattoni 's expert guidance and Batistuta 's goals , Fiorentina challenged for the title in 1998-99 but finished the season in third , earning them qualification for the Champions League .	Fiorentina is known by the nickname La viola ; a reference to their distinctive purple colors .	0
Milan beat Fiorentina to top spot the following year , but more significantly Fiorentina became the first Italian team to play in a European Cup final , when a disputed penalty led to a 2-0 defeat at the hands of by Alfredo di Stéfano 's Real Madrid .	Founded in 1926 .	0
Milan beat Fiorentina to top spot the following year , but more significantly Fiorentina became the first Italian team to play in a European Cup final , when a disputed penalty led to a 2-0 defeat at the hands of by Alfredo di Stéfano 's Real Madrid .	Fiorentina have won Serie A twice , first in 1955\/56 then again in 1968\/69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies .	0
Milan beat Fiorentina to top spot the following year , but more significantly Fiorentina became the first Italian team to play in a European Cup final , when a disputed penalty led to a 2-0 defeat at the hands of by Alfredo di Stéfano 's Real Madrid .	On the European stage Fiorentina have won the UEFA Cup Winners ' Cup in 1960\/61 , they finished runners-up in the UEFA Cup 1989\/90 and they also came close to winning the biggest European prize , finishing as runners-up in the European Cup during 1956\/57 .	1
Milan beat Fiorentina to top spot the following year , but more significantly Fiorentina became the first Italian team to play in a European Cup final , when a disputed penalty led to a 2-0 defeat at the hands of by Alfredo di Stéfano 's Real Madrid .	1926-2002 AC Fiorentina .	0
They also won the Coppa Italia for the sixth and last time .	ACF Fiorentina ( Associazione Calcio Fiorentina e Florentia Viola ) , often called just and friendly Fiorentina , is an Italian professional football club from Florence , Tuscany .	0
They also won the Coppa Italia for the sixth and last time .	Founded in 1926 .	0
They also won the Coppa Italia for the sixth and last time .	Fiorentina have won Serie A twice , first in 1955\/56 then again in 1968\/69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies .	1
They also won the Coppa Italia for the sixth and last time .	On the European stage Fiorentina have won the UEFA Cup Winners ' Cup in 1960\/61 , they finished runners-up in the UEFA Cup 1989\/90 and they also came close to winning the biggest European prize , finishing as runners-up in the European Cup during 1956\/57 .	0
Fiorentina have won two Italian Championships , in 1955-56 and again in 1968-69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies and one Italian Super Cup .	ACF Fiorentina ( Associazione Calcio Fiorentina e Florentia Viola ) , often called just and friendly Fiorentina , is an Italian professional football club from Florence , Tuscany .	0
Fiorentina have won two Italian Championships , in 1955-56 and again in 1968-69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies and one Italian Super Cup .	Founded in 1926 .	0
Fiorentina have won two Italian Championships , in 1955-56 and again in 1968-69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies and one Italian Super Cup .	Fiorentina have won Serie A twice , first in 1955\/56 then again in 1968\/69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies .	1
Fiorentina have won two Italian Championships , in 1955-56 and again in 1968-69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies and one Italian Super Cup .	On the European stage Fiorentina have won the UEFA Cup Winners ' Cup in 1960\/61 , they finished runners-up in the UEFA Cup 1989\/90 and they also came close to winning the biggest European prize , finishing as runners-up in the European Cup during 1956\/57 .	0
They finished runners-up in the 1956-57 European Cup , losing against Real Madrid , and also came close to winning the UEFA Cup , finishing as runners-up in the 1989-90 season .	Founded in 1926 .	0
They finished runners-up in the 1956-57 European Cup , losing against Real Madrid , and also came close to winning the UEFA Cup , finishing as runners-up in the 1989-90 season .	Fiorentina have won Serie A twice , first in 1955\/56 then again in 1968\/69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies .	0
They finished runners-up in the 1956-57 European Cup , losing against Real Madrid , and also came close to winning the UEFA Cup , finishing as runners-up in the 1989-90 season .	On the European stage Fiorentina have won the UEFA Cup Winners ' Cup in 1960\/61 , they finished runners-up in the UEFA Cup 1989\/90 and they also came close to winning the biggest European prize , finishing as runners-up in the European Cup during 1956\/57 .	1
They finished runners-up in the 1956-57 European Cup , losing against Real Madrid , and also came close to winning the UEFA Cup , finishing as runners-up in the 1989-90 season .	1926-2002 AC Fiorentina .	0
In the 2003 off-season , the club also bought back the right to use the Fiorentina name and the famous shirt design , and re-incorporated itself as ACF Fiorentina .	1926-2002 AC Fiorentina .	0
In the 2003 off-season , the club also bought back the right to use the Fiorentina name and the famous shirt design , and re-incorporated itself as ACF Fiorentina .	2002-2003 Florentia Viola .	0
In the 2003 off-season , the club also bought back the right to use the Fiorentina name and the famous shirt design , and re-incorporated itself as ACF Fiorentina .	2003-present ACF Fiorentina .	1
In the 2003 off-season , the club also bought back the right to use the Fiorentina name and the famous shirt design , and re-incorporated itself as ACF Fiorentina .	Fiorentina is known by the nickname La viola ; a reference to their distinctive purple colors .	0
ACF Fiorentina , commonly referred to as simply Fiorentina , is a professional Italian football club from Florence , Tuscany .	Fiorentina is known by the nickname La viola ; a reference to their distinctive purple colors .	0
Founded by a merger in 1926 ( refounded in 2002 ) , Fiorentina have played at the top level of Italian football for the majority of their existence ; only four clubs have played in more Serie A seasons .	ACF Fiorentina ( Associazione Calcio Fiorentina e Florentia Viola ) , often called just and friendly Fiorentina , is an Italian professional football club from Florence , Tuscany .	0
Founded by a merger in 1926 ( refounded in 2002 ) , Fiorentina have played at the top level of Italian football for the majority of their existence ; only four clubs have played in more Serie A seasons .	Founded in 1926 .	1
Founded by a merger in 1926 ( refounded in 2002 ) , Fiorentina have played at the top level of Italian football for the majority of their existence ; only four clubs have played in more Serie A seasons .	Fiorentina have won Serie A twice , first in 1955\/56 then again in 1968\/69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies .	0
Fiorentina are known widely by the nickname Viola , a reference to their distinctive purple colors .	2002-2003 Florentia Viola .	0
Fiorentina are known widely by the nickname Viola , a reference to their distinctive purple colors .	2003-present ACF Fiorentina .	0
Founded by a merger in 1926 ( refounded in 2002 ) , Fiorentina have played at the top level of Italian football for the majority of their existence ; only four clubs have played in more Serie A seasons .	2002-2003 Florentia Viola .	0
ACF Fiorentina , commonly referred to as simply Fiorentina , is a professional Italian football club from Florence , Tuscany .	ACF Fiorentina ( Associazione Calcio Fiorentina e Florentia Viola ) , often called just and friendly Fiorentina , is an Italian professional football club from Florence , Tuscany .	1
ACF Fiorentina , commonly referred to as simply Fiorentina , is a professional Italian football club from Florence , Tuscany .	Founded in 1926 .	0
On October 20 , 2009 , Pepsi Japan released an azuki-flavored Pepsi product .	So Azuki beans are closely related to Japanese life from ancient times .	0
The following year was disappointing in Serie A , but Viola played some historical matches in Champions League , beating Arsenal 1-0 at the old Wembley Stadium and Manchester United 2-0 in Florence .	1926-2002 AC Fiorentina .	0
The following year was disappointing in Serie A , but Viola played some historical matches in Champions League , beating Arsenal 1-0 at the old Wembley Stadium and Manchester United 2-0 in Florence .	2002-2003 Florentia Viola .	0
The following year was disappointing in Serie A , but Viola played some historical matches in Champions League , beating Arsenal 1-0 at the old Wembley Stadium and Manchester United 2-0 in Florence .	2003-present ACF Fiorentina .	1
The following year was disappointing in Serie A , but Viola played some historical matches in Champions League , beating Arsenal 1-0 at the old Wembley Stadium and Manchester United 2-0 in Florence .	Fiorentina is known by the nickname La viola ; a reference to their distinctive purple colors .	0
This team won Fiorentina 's first scudetto ( Italian championship ) in 1955-56 , 12 points ahead of second-place Milan .	ACF Fiorentina ( Associazione Calcio Fiorentina e Florentia Viola ) , often called just and friendly Fiorentina , is an Italian professional football club from Florence , Tuscany .	0
This team won Fiorentina 's first scudetto ( Italian championship ) in 1955-56 , 12 points ahead of second-place Milan .	Founded in 1926 .	0
This team won Fiorentina 's first scudetto ( Italian championship ) in 1955-56 , 12 points ahead of second-place Milan .	Fiorentina have won Serie A twice , first in 1955\/56 then again in 1968\/69 , as well as winning six Coppa Italia trophies .	1
This team won Fiorentina 's first scudetto ( Italian championship ) in 1955-56 , 12 points ahead of second-place Milan .	On the European stage Fiorentina have won the UEFA Cup Winners ' Cup in 1960\/61 , they finished runners-up in the UEFA Cup 1989\/90 and they also came close to winning the biggest European prize , finishing as runners-up in the European Cup during 1956\/57 .	0
In addition the genus name Acherontia is derived from Acheron , a river in Greece , which in Greek mythology was known as the river of pain , and was one of the five rivers of the Greek underworld .	They will only move to find fresh leaves .	0
In addition the genus name Acherontia is derived from Acheron , a river in Greece , which in Greek mythology was known as the river of pain , and was one of the five rivers of the Greek underworld .	If a caterpillar is attacked , it will make sounds with its mandibles .	0
Eggs are laid singly under old leaves of Solanaceae : potato especially , but also Physalis and other nightshades .	Female A. atropos will lay one egg per host plant ( the host plant is the plant that the caterpillar feeds on ) .	1
Eggs are laid singly under old leaves of Solanaceae : potato especially , but also Physalis and other nightshades .	She will lay them on the underside of the leaves .	1
Eggs are laid singly under old leaves of Solanaceae : potato especially , but also Physalis and other nightshades .	The egg is green or a gray-blue color .	0
Eggs are laid singly under old leaves of Solanaceae : potato especially , but also Physalis and other nightshades .	A. atropos feeds on the honey .	0
Eggs are laid singly under old leaves of Solanaceae : potato especially , but also Physalis and other nightshades .	It will break through the honeycombs with its sharp proboscis .	0
Various species of kauri give diverse resins such as kauri copal , Manilla copal and Dammar gum .	In the logging industry it is generally referred to as commercial grade mahogany .	0
Various species of kauri give diverse resins such as kauri copal , Manilla copal and Dammar gum .	Timber from the Agathis has several uses , including cabinet making , boat building , musical instruments , and in years past , artificial limbs .	0
Various species of kauri give diverse resins such as kauri copal , Manilla copal and Dammar gum .	It also produces a wide variety of resins .	1
The timber is generally straight-grained and of fine quality with an exceptional strength-to-weight ratio and rot resistance , making it ideal for yacht hull construction .	Agathis is a genus of evergreen , coniferous trees , the kauri .	0
In contrast , young trees are normally conical in shape , forming a more rounded or irregularly shaped crown as they achieve maturity .	The genus is part of the ancient Araucariaceae family of conifers , a group once widespread during the Jurassic period , but now largely restricted to the southern hemisphere .	0
In contrast , young trees are normally conical in shape , forming a more rounded or irregularly shaped crown as they achieve maturity .	Mature kauri trees have large trunks , forming a bole with little or no branching below the crown .	0
In contrast , young trees are normally conical in shape , forming a more rounded or irregularly shaped crown as they achieve maturity .	In contrast , young trees are normally conical in shape , forming a more rounded or irregularly shaped crown as they mature .	1
In contrast , young trees are normally conical in shape , forming a more rounded or irregularly shaped crown as they achieve maturity .	In the logging industry it is generally referred to as commercial grade mahogany .	0
The timber is generally straight-grained and of fine quality with an exceptional strength-to-weight ratio and rot resistance , making it ideal for yacht hull construction .	In contrast , young trees are normally conical in shape , forming a more rounded or irregularly shaped crown as they mature .	0
The timber is generally straight-grained and of fine quality with an exceptional strength-to-weight ratio and rot resistance , making it ideal for yacht hull construction .	In the logging industry it is generally referred to as commercial grade mahogany .	0
The timber is generally straight-grained and of fine quality with an exceptional strength-to-weight ratio and rot resistance , making it ideal for yacht hull construction .	Timber from the Agathis has several uses , including cabinet making , boat building , musical instruments , and in years past , artificial limbs .	1
The timber is generally straight-grained and of fine quality with an exceptional strength-to-weight ratio and rot resistance , making it ideal for yacht hull construction .	It also produces a wide variety of resins .	0
The genus Agathis , commonly known as kauri or dammar , is a relatively small genus of 21 species of evergreen tree .	It also produces a wide variety of resins .	0
The genus is part of the ancient Araucariaceae family of conifers , a group once widespread during the Jurassic period , but now largely restricted to the Southern Hemisphere except for a number of extant Malesian Agathis .	Agathis is a genus of evergreen , coniferous trees , the kauri .	0
The genus is part of the ancient Araucariaceae family of conifers , a group once widespread during the Jurassic period , but now largely restricted to the Southern Hemisphere except for a number of extant Malesian Agathis .	They grow mainly in the southern hemisphere , including southeast Asia , areas of the western Pacific , and Australasia .	1
The genus is part of the ancient Araucariaceae family of conifers , a group once widespread during the Jurassic period , but now largely restricted to the Southern Hemisphere except for a number of extant Malesian Agathis .	Agathis is a relatively small genus , with only 21 known species .	0
The genus is part of the ancient Araucariaceae family of conifers , a group once widespread during the Jurassic period , but now largely restricted to the Southern Hemisphere except for a number of extant Malesian Agathis .	As a conifer , it produces pine cones .	0
The genus is part of the ancient Araucariaceae family of conifers , a group once widespread during the Jurassic period , but now largely restricted to the Southern Hemisphere except for a number of extant Malesian Agathis .	Mature Agathis can become quite large , reaching 130 feet ( about 40 m ) in height and 10 feet ( about 3 m ) in diameter .	0
The genus is part of the ancient Araucariaceae family of conifers , a group once widespread during the Jurassic period , but now largely restricted to the Southern Hemisphere except for a number of extant Malesian Agathis .	The genus is part of the ancient Araucariaceae family of conifers , a group once widespread during the Jurassic period , but now largely restricted to the southern hemisphere .	1
The genus is part of the ancient Araucariaceae family of conifers , a group once widespread during the Jurassic period , but now largely restricted to the Southern Hemisphere except for a number of extant Malesian Agathis .	Mature kauri trees have large trunks , forming a bole with little or no branching below the crown .	0
The wood is commonly used in the manufacture of low priced guitars due to its good resonating properties , yet relatively low price of production .	In contrast , young trees are normally conical in shape , forming a more rounded or irregularly shaped crown as they mature .	0
The wood is commonly used in the manufacture of low priced guitars due to its good resonating properties , yet relatively low price of production .	In the logging industry it is generally referred to as commercial grade mahogany .	0
The wood is commonly used in the manufacture of low priced guitars due to its good resonating properties , yet relatively low price of production .	Timber from the Agathis has several uses , including cabinet making , boat building , musical instruments , and in years past , artificial limbs .	1
The wood is commonly used in the manufacture of low priced guitars due to its good resonating properties , yet relatively low price of production .	It also produces a wide variety of resins .	0
Mature kauri trees have characteristically large trunks , forming a bole with little or no branching below the crown .	Mature Agathis can become quite large , reaching 130 feet ( about 40 m ) in height and 10 feet ( about 3 m ) in diameter .	0
Mature kauri trees have characteristically large trunks , forming a bole with little or no branching below the crown .	The genus is part of the ancient Araucariaceae family of conifers , a group once widespread during the Jurassic period , but now largely restricted to the southern hemisphere .	0
Mature kauri trees have characteristically large trunks , forming a bole with little or no branching below the crown .	Mature kauri trees have large trunks , forming a bole with little or no branching below the crown .	1
Mature kauri trees have characteristically large trunks , forming a bole with little or no branching below the crown .	In contrast , young trees are normally conical in shape , forming a more rounded or irregularly shaped crown as they mature .	0
Aemilian had command of the army assigned to defend the area .	He ruled for 3 months in 253AD .	0
Aemilian had command of the army assigned to defend the area .	He was born in Tunisia in North Africa .	0
Aemilian had command of the army assigned to defend the area .	He was a military commander and was sent to defend the Danube to defend it .	1
Aemilian had command of the army assigned to defend the area .	After defeating the Goths ( a barbarian tribe ) in modern-day Bulgaria , his soldiers proclaimed him as an Emperor instead of Trebonianus Gallus , the emperor at the time .	0
Aemilian moved towards Rome ; here the Roman senate , after a short opposition , decided to recognize him as emperor .	He was born in Tunisia in North Africa .	0
Aemilian moved towards Rome ; here the Roman senate , after a short opposition , decided to recognize him as emperor .	He was a military commander and was sent to defend the Danube to defend it .	0
Aemilian moved towards Rome ; here the Roman senate , after a short opposition , decided to recognize him as emperor .	After defeating the Goths ( a barbarian tribe ) in modern-day Bulgaria , his soldiers proclaimed him as an Emperor instead of Trebonianus Gallus , the emperor at the time .	1
Aemilian moved towards Rome ; here the Roman senate , after a short opposition , decided to recognize him as emperor .	After defeating Gallus in battle at Interamna ( Northern Italy ) , he captured the capital city of the empire , Rome .	0
Emperor Aemilian 's men , fearful of a civil war and Valerian 's larger force , mutinied .	After defeating Gallus in battle at Interamna ( Northern Italy ) , he captured the capital city of the empire , Rome .	0
Emperor Aemilian 's men , fearful of a civil war and Valerian 's larger force , mutinied .	When Valerianus , Governor of Roman Germany , arrived in Italy ) bringing troops to reenforce Gallus , Aemilianus ' troops killed him .	0
Emperor Aemilian 's men , fearful of a civil war and Valerian 's larger force , mutinied .	They did not want a civil war and Valerian had a bigger army than Aemilianus .	1
Aemilian was killed by them at Spoletium or the Sanguinarium bridge , between Oriculum and Narnia ( half way between Spoletium and Rome ) , and recognized Valerian as the new emperor .	Aemilianus ( Marcus Aemilius Aemilianus Augustus ) was an emperor of Rome in the 3rd century AD .	0
Aemilian was killed by them at Spoletium or the Sanguinarium bridge , between Oriculum and Narnia ( half way between Spoletium and Rome ) , and recognized Valerian as the new emperor .	After defeating the Goths ( a barbarian tribe ) in modern-day Bulgaria , his soldiers proclaimed him as an Emperor instead of Trebonianus Gallus , the emperor at the time .	0
Aemilian was killed by them at Spoletium or the Sanguinarium bridge , between Oriculum and Narnia ( half way between Spoletium and Rome ) , and recognized Valerian as the new emperor .	After defeating Gallus in battle at Interamna ( Northern Italy ) , he captured the capital city of the empire , Rome .	0
Aemilian was killed by them at Spoletium or the Sanguinarium bridge , between Oriculum and Narnia ( half way between Spoletium and Rome ) , and recognized Valerian as the new emperor .	When Valerianus , Governor of Roman Germany , arrived in Italy ) bringing troops to reenforce Gallus , Aemilianus ' troops killed him .	1
Aemilian was killed by them at Spoletium or the Sanguinarium bridge , between Oriculum and Narnia ( half way between Spoletium and Rome ) , and recognized Valerian as the new emperor .	They did not want a civil war and Valerian had a bigger army than Aemilianus .	0
The Roman soldiers , gathered by Aemilian , acclaimed him Emperor .	He was born in Tunisia in North Africa .	0
The Roman soldiers , gathered by Aemilian , acclaimed him Emperor .	He was a military commander and was sent to defend the Danube to defend it .	0
The Roman soldiers , gathered by Aemilian , acclaimed him Emperor .	After defeating the Goths ( a barbarian tribe ) in modern-day Bulgaria , his soldiers proclaimed him as an Emperor instead of Trebonianus Gallus , the emperor at the time .	1
The Roman soldiers , gathered by Aemilian , acclaimed him Emperor .	After defeating Gallus in battle at Interamna ( Northern Italy ) , he captured the capital city of the empire , Rome .	0
Commander of the Moesian troops , he obtained an important victory against the invading Goths and was , for this reason , acclaimed Emperor by his army .	He ruled for 3 months in 253AD .	0
Commander of the Moesian troops , he obtained an important victory against the invading Goths and was , for this reason , acclaimed Emperor by his army .	He was born in Tunisia in North Africa .	0
Commander of the Moesian troops , he obtained an important victory against the invading Goths and was , for this reason , acclaimed Emperor by his army .	He was a military commander and was sent to defend the Danube to defend it .	1
Commander of the Moesian troops , he obtained an important victory against the invading Goths and was , for this reason , acclaimed Emperor by his army .	After defeating the Goths ( a barbarian tribe ) in modern-day Bulgaria , his soldiers proclaimed him as an Emperor instead of Trebonianus Gallus , the emperor at the time .	1
Commander of the Moesian troops , he obtained an important victory against the invading Goths and was , for this reason , acclaimed Emperor by his army .	After defeating Gallus in battle at Interamna ( Northern Italy ) , he captured the capital city of the empire , Rome .	0
He then moved quickly to Italy , where he defeated Emperor Trebonianus Gallus , only to be killed by his own men when another general , Valerian , proclaimed himself Emperor and moved against Aemilian with a larger army .	He was a military commander and was sent to defend the Danube to defend it .	0
He then moved quickly to Italy , where he defeated Emperor Trebonianus Gallus , only to be killed by his own men when another general , Valerian , proclaimed himself Emperor and moved against Aemilian with a larger army .	After defeating the Goths ( a barbarian tribe ) in modern-day Bulgaria , his soldiers proclaimed him as an Emperor instead of Trebonianus Gallus , the emperor at the time .	0
He then moved quickly to Italy , where he defeated Emperor Trebonianus Gallus , only to be killed by his own men when another general , Valerian , proclaimed himself Emperor and moved against Aemilian with a larger army .	After defeating Gallus in battle at Interamna ( Northern Italy ) , he captured the capital city of the empire , Rome .	1
He then moved quickly to Italy , where he defeated Emperor Trebonianus Gallus , only to be killed by his own men when another general , Valerian , proclaimed himself Emperor and moved against Aemilian with a larger army .	When Valerianus , Governor of Roman Germany , arrived in Italy ) bringing troops to reenforce Gallus , Aemilianus ' troops killed him .	1
He then moved quickly to Italy , where he defeated Emperor Trebonianus Gallus , only to be killed by his own men when another general , Valerian , proclaimed himself Emperor and moved against Aemilian with a larger army .	They did not want a civil war and Valerian had a bigger army than Aemilianus .	1
Aemilian was born in the Roman province of Africa .	Aemilianus ( Marcus Aemilius Aemilianus Augustus ) was an emperor of Rome in the 3rd century AD .	0
It is possible that Aegyptosaurus was common prey for large predatory dinosaurs , such as Carcharodontosaurus and Spinosaurus .	Aegyptosaurus was much smaller and more common than its contemporary , Paralititan .	0
It is possible that Aegyptosaurus was common prey for large predatory dinosaurs , such as Carcharodontosaurus and Spinosaurus .	Predators probably hunted the smaller Aegyptosaurus more often than the huge Paralititan .	1
Aemilianus ( Latin : Marcus Aemilius Aemilianus Augustus ; c. 207\/213 - 253 ) , also known as Aemilian , was Roman Emperor for three months in 253 .	Aemilianus ( Marcus Aemilius Aemilianus Augustus ) was an emperor of Rome in the 3rd century AD .	1
Aemilianus ( Latin : Marcus Aemilius Aemilianus Augustus ; c. 207\/213 - 253 ) , also known as Aemilian , was Roman Emperor for three months in 253 .	He ruled for 3 months in 253AD .	1
Aemilianus ( Latin : Marcus Aemilius Aemilianus Augustus ; c. 207\/213 - 253 ) , also known as Aemilian , was Roman Emperor for three months in 253 .	He was born in Tunisia in North Africa .	0
Aemilian was born in the Roman province of Africa .	He ruled for 3 months in 253AD .	0
Aemilian was born in the Roman province of Africa .	He was born in Tunisia in North Africa .	1
Aemilian was born in the Roman province of Africa .	He was a military commander and was sent to defend the Danube to defend it .	0
His primary responsibility was to assure peace along the Danube frontier , which had been subject to several attacks by the Goths led by king Cniva .	He ruled for 3 months in 253AD .	0
His primary responsibility was to assure peace along the Danube frontier , which had been subject to several attacks by the Goths led by king Cniva .	He was born in Tunisia in North Africa .	0
His primary responsibility was to assure peace along the Danube frontier , which had been subject to several attacks by the Goths led by king Cniva .	He was a military commander and was sent to defend the Danube to defend it .	1
His primary responsibility was to assure peace along the Danube frontier , which had been subject to several attacks by the Goths led by king Cniva .	After defeating the Goths ( a barbarian tribe ) in modern-day Bulgaria , his soldiers proclaimed him as an Emperor instead of Trebonianus Gallus , the emperor at the time .	0
The majority of the Australian squad consisted of overseas , mainly European based , players after Pim Verbeek announced the local A-league was not yet up to World Cup standards .	Harry Kewell .	0
The majority of the Australian squad consisted of overseas , mainly European based , players after Pim Verbeek announced the local A-league was not yet up to World Cup standards .	Craig Moore .	0
In the second group game , Australia drew 0-0 with China with Mark Schwarzer saving a penalty in the last few minutes .	Mark Schwarzer .	1
In the second group game , Australia drew 0-0 with China with Mark Schwarzer saving a penalty in the last few minutes .	Adam Federici .	0
At about 40 to 60 years of age , the elephant no longer has teeth and will likely die of starvation , a common cause of death .	to replace those that dropped out .	0
At about 40 to 60 years of age , the elephant no longer has teeth and will likely die of starvation , a common cause of death .	Elephants replace their teeth six times .	0
At about 40 to 60 years of age , the elephant no longer has teeth and will likely die of starvation , a common cause of death .	At about 40 to 60 years of age the elephant no longer has teeth and will likely die of starvation , a common cause of death .	1
At about 40 to 60 years of age , the elephant no longer has teeth and will likely die of starvation , a common cause of death .	Their tusks are teeth , the second set of incisors become the tusks .	0
The tool is a Command Line Interface tool only .	m4p-music and information , with DRM .	0
The tool is a Command Line Interface tool only .	.	0
Different types of land rights laws exist in Australia , allowing for the grant of land to Indigenous Australians under various conditions .	There are many different types of land rights laws .	1
Different types of land rights laws exist in Australia , allowing for the grant of land to Indigenous Australians under various conditions .	They all allow the government to grant land to indigenous ( native ) Australians under many different conditions ( terms ) .	1
Different types of land rights laws exist in Australia , allowing for the grant of land to Indigenous Australians under various conditions .	Land rights schemes are in place in the Northern Territory , Queensland , New South Wales , South Australia , and Victoria .	0
Aboriginal land rights in Australia are grants of land to Indigenous Australians by the Commonwealth , state or territory governments of Australia .	Supporters in the cities rallied for the Gurindji and eventually they won title to part of their land .	0
Different types of land rights laws exist in Australia , allowing for the grant of land to Indigenous Australians under various conditions .	Aboriginal land rights in Australia are the special set of rights given to Indigenous Australians to own land .	0
Acherontia species are notorious mainly for a vaguely skull-shaped pattern on the thorax .	The head and thorax are dark brown or black .	0
Acherontia species are notorious mainly for a vaguely skull-shaped pattern on the thorax .	They are the same color as the top wings .	0
Acherontia species are notorious mainly for a vaguely skull-shaped pattern on the thorax .	On the thorax , there is a dark brown spot that looks like a human skull .	1
Acherontia species are notorious mainly for a vaguely skull-shaped pattern on the thorax .	This is where the moth gets its name .	0
For details , see Linguistic issues concerning the euro .	and put itself forward to become a member in 1995 .	0
For details , see Linguistic issues concerning the euro .	During the 2000s , Romania made changes to the country , such as making her democratic system , human rights acts , freedom of speech acts , economy and law better .	0
Acherontia atropos is the most widely-known of the three species of Death 's - head Hawk moth .	Acherontia atropos is the most widely-known of the three species of Death 's - head Hawkmoth .	1
Acherontia atropos is the most widely-known of the three species of Death 's - head Hawk moth .	A. atropos has a wingspan of 10 to 13 cm ( 3.9 to 5.1 in ) .	0
Larvae do not move much , and will click their mandibles or even bite if threatened , though the bite is effectively harmless to the human skin .	This makes the caterpillar darken even faster .	0
Larvae do not move much , and will click their mandibles or even bite if threatened , though the bite is effectively harmless to the human skin .	Once this is done , it will look for a good place to pupate ( pupate means to turn into a pupa ) .	0
Larvae do not move much , and will click their mandibles or even bite if threatened , though the bite is effectively harmless to the human skin .	The caterpillars do not move very much .	1
Larvae do not move much , and will click their mandibles or even bite if threatened , though the bite is effectively harmless to the human skin .	They will only move to find fresh leaves .	0
Larvae do not move much , and will click their mandibles or even bite if threatened , though the bite is effectively harmless to the human skin .	If a caterpillar is attacked , it will make sounds with its mandibles .	1
Larvae do not move much , and will click their mandibles or even bite if threatened , though the bite is effectively harmless to the human skin .	They will also bite very hard if attacked .	1
Larvae do not move much , and will click their mandibles or even bite if threatened , though the bite is effectively harmless to the human skin .	The caterpillar will pupate 15 to 40 cm ( 5.9 to 15.7 in ) deep in the ground .	0
It is attacked by guard bees at the entrance , but the thick cuticle and resistance to venom allow it to enter the hive .	At night , A. atropos will raid beehives .	0
It is attacked by guard bees at the entrance , but the thick cuticle and resistance to venom allow it to enter the hive .	It will only attack Western honey bee beehives .	0
It is attacked by guard bees at the entrance , but the thick cuticle and resistance to venom allow it to enter the hive .	A. atropos is attacked at the entrance by guard bees .	1
It is attacked by guard bees at the entrance , but the thick cuticle and resistance to venom allow it to enter the hive .	However , A atropos is immune to the bees ' venom .	1
It is attacked by guard bees at the entrance , but the thick cuticle and resistance to venom allow it to enter the hive .	The moth also can mimic the bees ' scent .	0
It has the ability to emit a loud squeak if irritated .	However , they will sometimes be seen as early as February and as late as October .	0
It has the ability to emit a loud squeak if irritated .	They have many broods ( a brood is a group of offspring ) each year .	0
It has the ability to emit a loud squeak if irritated .	A. atropos is able to make a loud cry if it is attacked by predators .	1
It has the ability to emit a loud squeak if irritated .	It can make this sound by pushing air out of its proboscis ( the proboscis is the moth 's mouth ) .	0
It often accompanies this sound with flashing its brightly marked abdomen in a further attempt to deter its predators .	A. atropos is able to make a loud cry if it is attacked by predators .	0
It often accompanies this sound with flashing its brightly marked abdomen in a further attempt to deter its predators .	It can make this sound by pushing air out of its proboscis ( the proboscis is the moth 's mouth ) .	0
It often accompanies this sound with flashing its brightly marked abdomen in a further attempt to deter its predators .	If this does not scare the predator away , it will quickly flash its abdomen , showing the yellow spots .	1
It often accompanies this sound with flashing its brightly marked abdomen in a further attempt to deter its predators .	A. atropos is most active from evening to after midnight .	0
Acherontia atropos occurs throughout the Middle East and the Mediterranean region , much of Africa down to the southern tip , and increasingly as far north as southern Great Britain due to recently mild British winters .	The abdomen is blackish-blue .	0
Acherontia atropos occurs throughout the Middle East and the Mediterranean region , much of Africa down to the southern tip , and increasingly as far north as southern Great Britain due to recently mild British winters .	There are is a row of yellow spots on each side of the abdomen .	0
Acherontia atropos occurs throughout the Middle East and the Mediterranean region , much of Africa down to the southern tip , and increasingly as far north as southern Great Britain due to recently mild British winters .	It is found from northern Africa to the Middle East .	1
Acherontia atropos occurs throughout the Middle East and the Mediterranean region , much of Africa down to the southern tip , and increasingly as far north as southern Great Britain due to recently mild British winters .	It can be found as far north as southern Great Britain .	1
Acherontia atropos occurs throughout the Middle East and the Mediterranean region , much of Africa down to the southern tip , and increasingly as far north as southern Great Britain due to recently mild British winters .	It can also be found on the Canary Islands , Madeira , and the Azores .	0
The newly-hatched larva starts out a light shade of green but darkens after feeding , with yellow stripes diagonally on the sides .	The egg is green or a gray-blue color .	0
The newly-hatched larva starts out a light shade of green but darkens after feeding , with yellow stripes diagonally on the sides .	It will turn to a yellowish color just before hatching .	0
The newly-hatched larva starts out a light shade of green but darkens after feeding , with yellow stripes diagonally on the sides .	The newly hatched caterpillar is yellow-green .	1
The newly-hatched larva starts out a light shade of green but darkens after feeding , with yellow stripes diagonally on the sides .	It has a very long , black horn on the end of the abdomen .	0
The newly-hatched larva starts out a light shade of green but darkens after feeding , with yellow stripes diagonally on the sides .	After it sheds its skin , it becomes more green .	0
The newly-hatched larva starts out a light shade of green but darkens after feeding , with yellow stripes diagonally on the sides .	It has yellow stripes on each side of the body .	1
The newly-hatched larva starts out a light shade of green but darkens after feeding , with yellow stripes diagonally on the sides .	There are many small white and yellow bumps on the body .	0
It occurs as far east as India and western Saudi Arabia , and as far west as the Canary Islands and Azores .	It is found from northern Africa to the Middle East .	0
It occurs as far east as India and western Saudi Arabia , and as far west as the Canary Islands and Azores .	It can be found as far north as southern Great Britain .	0
It occurs as far east as India and western Saudi Arabia , and as far west as the Canary Islands and Azores .	It can also be found on the Canary Islands , Madeira , and the Azores .	1
It occurs as far east as India and western Saudi Arabia , and as far west as the Canary Islands and Azores .	A. atropos is seen from March to September in its normal range .	0
The larva grows to about 120-130 mm , and pupates in an underground chamber .	If a caterpillar is attacked , it will make sounds with its mandibles .	0
The larva grows to about 120-130 mm , and pupates in an underground chamber .	They will also bite very hard if attacked .	0
The larva grows to about 120-130 mm , and pupates in an underground chamber .	The caterpillar will pupate 15 to 40 cm ( 5.9 to 15.7 in ) deep in the ground .	1
The larva grows to about 120-130 mm , and pupates in an underground chamber .	The chrysalis is a shiny brown .	0
It is able to move about in hives unmolested because it mimics the scent of the bees .	A. atropos is attacked at the entrance by guard bees .	0
It is able to move about in hives unmolested because it mimics the scent of the bees .	However , A atropos is immune to the bees ' venom .	0
It is able to move about in hives unmolested because it mimics the scent of the bees .	The moth also can mimic the bees ' scent .	1
It is able to move about in hives unmolested because it mimics the scent of the bees .	A. atropos feeds on the honey .	0
The sound is produced by expelling air from its proboscis .	They have many broods ( a brood is a group of offspring ) each year .	0
The sound is produced by expelling air from its proboscis .	A. atropos is able to make a loud cry if it is attacked by predators .	0
The sound is produced by expelling air from its proboscis .	It can make this sound by pushing air out of its proboscis ( the proboscis is the moth 's mouth ) .	1
The sound is produced by expelling air from its proboscis .	If this does not scare the predator away , it will quickly flash its abdomen , showing the yellow spots .	0
The horn itself bends downwards near the base , but curls upwards towards the tip .	There are no longer any bumps on the body .	0
The horn itself bends downwards near the base , but curls upwards towards the tip .	The horn is now yellow .	0
The horn itself bends downwards near the base , but curls upwards towards the tip .	It points downward .	1
The horn itself bends downwards near the base , but curls upwards towards the tip .	The horn has many little bumps on it .	0
Acherontia species are notorious mainly for a vaguely skull-shaped pattern on the thorax .	A. atropos does not live through the winter in Europe .	0
Acherontia atropos is a large hawk moth with a wingspan of 90-130 mm ( about 3.5 to 5 inches ) , being the largest moth in some of the regions in which it occurs .	Acherontia atropos is the most widely-known of the three species of Death 's - head Hawkmoth .	0
Acherontia atropos is a large hawk moth with a wingspan of 90-130 mm ( about 3.5 to 5 inches ) , being the largest moth in some of the regions in which it occurs .	A. atropos has a wingspan of 10 to 13 cm ( 3.9 to 5.1 in ) .	1
Acherontia atropos is a large hawk moth with a wingspan of 90-130 mm ( about 3.5 to 5 inches ) , being the largest moth in some of the regions in which it occurs .	The top wings are mainly dark brown or black .	0
There are several generations of Acherontia atropos per year , with continuous broods in Africa .	A. atropos is seen from March to September in its normal range .	0
There are several generations of Acherontia atropos per year , with continuous broods in Africa .	However , they will sometimes be seen as early as February and as late as October .	0
There are several generations of Acherontia atropos per year , with continuous broods in Africa .	They have many broods ( a brood is a group of offspring ) each year .	1
There are several generations of Acherontia atropos per year , with continuous broods in Africa .	A. atropos is able to make a loud cry if it is attacked by predators .	0
Unlike the other species of Acherontia , it only attacks colonies of the well-known Western honey bee , Apis mellifera .	It will feed on the nectar of Potato , Tobacco , Sweet William , and Orange blossoms .	0
Unlike the other species of Acherontia , it only attacks colonies of the well-known Western honey bee , Apis mellifera .	At night , A. atropos will raid beehives .	0
Unlike the other species of Acherontia , it only attacks colonies of the well-known Western honey bee , Apis mellifera .	It will only attack Western honey bee beehives .	1
Unlike the other species of Acherontia , it only attacks colonies of the well-known Western honey bee , Apis mellifera .	A. atropos is attacked at the entrance by guard bees .	0
The upper wings are brown with slight yellow wavy lines ; the lower wings are yellow with some wide brown waves .	Acherontia atropos is the most widely-known of the three species of Death 's - head Hawkmoth .	0
The upper wings are brown with slight yellow wavy lines ; the lower wings are yellow with some wide brown waves .	A. atropos has a wingspan of 10 to 13 cm ( 3.9 to 5.1 in ) .	0
The upper wings are brown with slight yellow wavy lines ; the lower wings are yellow with some wide brown waves .	The top wings are mainly dark brown or black .	1
The upper wings are brown with slight yellow wavy lines ; the lower wings are yellow with some wide brown waves .	They are powdered with white .	0
The upper wings are brown with slight yellow wavy lines ; the lower wings are yellow with some wide brown waves .	There are many black and dark red stripes .	0
The upper wings are brown with slight yellow wavy lines ; the lower wings are yellow with some wide brown waves .	There is a small white spot in the center of each top wing .	0
The upper wings are brown with slight yellow wavy lines ; the lower wings are yellow with some wide brown waves .	The bottom wing is yellow or yellow-brown .	1
The upper wings are brown with slight yellow wavy lines ; the lower wings are yellow with some wide brown waves .	There are two black lines near the edge of each wing .	0
In the third instar , purple or blue edging develops on the yellow stripes and the tail horn turns from black to yellow .	After it sheds its skin a second time , the yellow stripes have blue or purple edges on them .	0
In the third instar , purple or blue edging develops on the yellow stripes and the tail horn turns from black to yellow .	The horn is yellow-green with the bottom part being black .	0
In the third instar , purple or blue edging develops on the yellow stripes and the tail horn turns from black to yellow .	After it sheds its skin for a third time , the caterpillar becomes more yellow .	1
In the third instar , purple or blue edging develops on the yellow stripes and the tail horn turns from black to yellow .	There is a row of black spots along each side of the body .	0
In the third instar , purple or blue edging develops on the yellow stripes and the tail horn turns from black to yellow .	The blue or purple edges on the yellow stripes become thicker .	1
In the third instar , purple or blue edging develops on the yellow stripes and the tail horn turns from black to yellow .	After it sheds its skin for the last time , it becomes even more yellow .	0
It is commonly observed raiding beehives for honey at night .	It is attracted to lights .	0
It is commonly observed raiding beehives for honey at night .	It will feed on the nectar of Potato , Tobacco , Sweet William , and Orange blossoms .	0
It is commonly observed raiding beehives for honey at night .	At night , A. atropos will raid beehives .	1
It is commonly observed raiding beehives for honey at night .	It will only attack Western honey bee beehives .	0
It is commonly observed raiding beehives for honey at night .	However , A atropos is immune to the bees ' venom .	0
It is commonly observed raiding beehives for honey at night .	The moth also can mimic the bees ' scent .	0
It is commonly observed raiding beehives for honey at night .	A. atropos feeds on the honey .	1
It is commonly observed raiding beehives for honey at night .	It will break through the honeycombs with its sharp proboscis .	0
Alcina ( HWV 34 ) is an opera seria by George Frideric Handel .	Her victims become humans again .	0
Handel used the libretto of L'isola di Alcina , an opera that was set in 1728 in Rome by Riccardo Broschi , which he acquired the year after , during his travels in Italy .	Alcina is an opera seria by George Frideric Handel .	0
Handel used the libretto of L'isola di Alcina , an opera that was set in 1728 in Rome by Riccardo Broschi , which he acquired the year after , during his travels in Italy .	The libretto was written by Riccardo Broschi .	1
Handel used the libretto of L'isola di Alcina , an opera that was set in 1728 in Rome by Riccardo Broschi , which he acquired the year after , during his travels in Italy .	It was based on an episode in Ludovico Ariosto 's Orlando furioso , an epic poem set in the time of Charlemagne 's wars against Islam .	0
There are usually some restrictions on selling , and dealing with , land that has been granted in a land rights claim .	Land rights schemes are in place in the Northern Territory , Queensland , New South Wales , South Australia , and Victoria .	0
There are usually some restrictions on selling , and dealing with , land that has been granted in a land rights claim .	Under these laws , the title to the land is normally given to a community or ethnic group , not an individual .	0
There are usually some restrictions on selling , and dealing with , land that has been granted in a land rights claim .	Usually , land that has been granted in a land rights claim can not be sold , traded , or mortgaged .	1
There are usually some restrictions on selling , and dealing with , land that has been granted in a land rights claim .	Grants will be normally require that the land be passed down to future generations through inheritance .	0
Hector Berlioz complained about the custom of his day in which timpani tuned to A and E a fifth apart were notated C and G a fourth apart , a custom which survived as late as the music of Franz Berwald .	When music for orchestra is in A major , the timpani are normally set to A and E a fifth apart .	0
Hector Berlioz complained about the custom of his day in which timpani tuned to A and E a fifth apart were notated C and G a fourth apart , a custom which survived as late as the music of Franz Berwald .	In most other keys , they are set a fourth apart .	0
Aboriginal land rights in Australia are grants of land to Indigenous Australians by the Commonwealth , state or territory governments of Australia .	Aboriginal land rights in Australia are the special set of rights given to Indigenous Australians to own land .	1
Aboriginal land rights in Australia are grants of land to Indigenous Australians by the Commonwealth , state or territory governments of Australia .	There are many different types of land rights laws .	0
The title is normally held by a community or an organization , not by individuals .	They all allow the government to grant land to indigenous ( native ) Australians under many different conditions ( terms ) .	0
The title is normally held by a community or an organization , not by individuals .	Land rights schemes are in place in the Northern Territory , Queensland , New South Wales , South Australia , and Victoria .	0
The title is normally held by a community or an organization , not by individuals .	Under these laws , the title to the land is normally given to a community or ethnic group , not an individual .	1
The title is normally held by a community or an organization , not by individuals .	Usually , land that has been granted in a land rights claim can not be sold , traded , or mortgaged .	0
However , it was not until the 1970s , when indigenous Australians ( both Australian Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders ) became more politically active , that there emerged powerful movement for the recognition of Aboriginal land rights .	Grants will be normally require that the land be passed down to future generations through inheritance .	0
However , it was not until the 1970s , when indigenous Australians ( both Australian Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders ) became more politically active , that there emerged powerful movement for the recognition of Aboriginal land rights .	The passing of Aboriginal land rights laws in Australia was caused by many important Aboriginal protests .	0
However , it was not until the 1970s , when indigenous Australians ( both Australian Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders ) became more politically active , that there emerged powerful movement for the recognition of Aboriginal land rights .	It was not until the 1970s , though , that there came an organised movement for the recognition of Aboriginal land rights .	1
However , it was not until the 1970s , when indigenous Australians ( both Australian Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders ) became more politically active , that there emerged powerful movement for the recognition of Aboriginal land rights .	On 1 May 1946 , more than 800 Aboriginal stockmen in the Pilbara region of Western Australia went on strike .	0
Land rights schemes are in place in the Northern Territory , Queensland , New South Wales , South Australia and Victoria .	There are many different types of land rights laws .	0
Land rights schemes are in place in the Northern Territory , Queensland , New South Wales , South Australia and Victoria .	They all allow the government to grant land to indigenous ( native ) Australians under many different conditions ( terms ) .	0
Land rights schemes are in place in the Northern Territory , Queensland , New South Wales , South Australia and Victoria .	Land rights schemes are in place in the Northern Territory , Queensland , New South Wales , South Australia , and Victoria .	1
Land rights schemes are in place in the Northern Territory , Queensland , New South Wales , South Australia and Victoria .	Under these laws , the title to the land is normally given to a community or ethnic group , not an individual .	0
Normally , the land will be passed down to future generations in a way that recognizes the community 's traditional connection to that country .	Under these laws , the title to the land is normally given to a community or ethnic group , not an individual .	0
Normally , the land will be passed down to future generations in a way that recognizes the community 's traditional connection to that country .	Usually , land that has been granted in a land rights claim can not be sold , traded , or mortgaged .	0
Normally , the land will be passed down to future generations in a way that recognizes the community 's traditional connection to that country .	Grants will be normally require that the land be passed down to future generations through inheritance .	1
Normally , the land will be passed down to future generations in a way that recognizes the community 's traditional connection to that country .	The passing of Aboriginal land rights laws in Australia was caused by many important Aboriginal protests .	0
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	Usually , land that has been granted in a land rights claim can not be sold , traded , or mortgaged .	0
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	Grants will be normally require that the land be passed down to future generations through inheritance .	0
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	The passing of Aboriginal land rights laws in Australia was caused by many important Aboriginal protests .	1
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	It was not until the 1970s , though , that there came an organised movement for the recognition of Aboriginal land rights .	0
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	On 1 May 1946 , more than 800 Aboriginal stockmen in the Pilbara region of Western Australia went on strike .	1
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	They demanded wages for their work .	0
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	They were joined by other Aboriginal workers from the towns of Port Hedland and Marble Bar .	0
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	The strike ended in 1949 .	0
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	In 1963 , the government turned part of the Yolngu people 's traditional lands ( in Arnhem Land ) into a bauxite mine .	1
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	The Yolngu started a petition ( now called the Yirrkala bark petitions ) to demand the rights to these lands .	1
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	The petition was turned into a legal case .	0
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	At the time , Aboriginal people were not counted in the census and their civil rights were different to white citizens .	0
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	This changed in 1967 , when a referendum gave Aborigines the same rights as white Australians .	0
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	The Wave Hill walkoff was in August 1966 .	1
The passing of Aboriginal land rights legislaton in Australia was preceded by a number of important Aboriginal protests , including the 1946 Aboriginal Stockmen 's Strike , the 1963 Yolngu Bark Petition , and the 1966 Wave Hill Walk-Off , as well as the Aboriginal Lands Trust Act 1966 ( SA ) , which established the South Australian Aboriginal Lands Trust .	A total of 200 Gurindji stockmen and servants at Wave Hill cattle station went on strike to demand wages and the return of some of their traditional lands .	0
Alexander earned the epithet `` the Great '' due to his unparalleled success as a military commander .	At the age of 20 he became the king of Macedonia , after his father had been assassinated by a former bodyguard .	0
Alexander earned the epithet `` the Great '' due to his unparalleled success as a military commander .	He wanted to rule a large empire called Persia .	0
Alexander earned the epithet `` the Great '' due to his unparalleled success as a military commander .	He is often listed as one of the greatest military commanders in history , along with Hannibal Barca , Ashoka the Great , Julius Caesar , Genghis Khan , Subutai , Napoleon I of France , and others .	1
Alexander earned the epithet `` the Great '' due to his unparalleled success as a military commander .	However , his men soon grew tired of traveling so far , and threatened to revolt .	0
Aegyptosaurus ( \/ iːˌdʒɪptɵˈsɔrəs \/ ) meaning ` Egypt 's lizard ' , for the country in which it was discovered ( Greek sauros meaning ` lizard ' ) is a genus of sauropod dinosaur believed to have lived in what is now Africa , around 95 million years ago , during the mid - and late-Cretaceous Period ( Albian to Cenomanian stages ) .	Predators probably hunted the smaller Aegyptosaurus more often than the huge Paralititan .	0
Like most sauropods , it had a long neck and a small skull .	Aegyptosaurus , meaning `` Egypt 's Lizard '' after the country where it was discovered ( comes from the Greek word sauros , which means ` lizard ' ) , is a genus of sauropod dinosaur that lived in Africa around 95 million years ago , during the Late Cretaceous period .	0
Like most sauropods , it had a long neck and a small skull .	Like most sauropods , it had a long neck and a small skull .	1
Like most sauropods , it had a long neck and a small skull .	The animal 's long tail probably acted as a counterweight to its body mass .	0
The animal 's long tail probably acted as a counterweight to its body mass .	Aegyptosaurus , meaning `` Egypt 's Lizard '' after the country where it was discovered ( comes from the Greek word sauros , which means ` lizard ' ) , is a genus of sauropod dinosaur that lived in Africa around 95 million years ago , during the Late Cretaceous period .	0
The animal 's long tail probably acted as a counterweight to its body mass .	Like most sauropods , it had a long neck and a small skull .	0
The animal 's long tail probably acted as a counterweight to its body mass .	The animal 's long tail probably acted as a counterweight to its body mass .	1
The animal 's long tail probably acted as a counterweight to its body mass .	Its tail also ended in a whip-like structure that it used to defend itself against predatory dinosaurs that lived in the same place and time as it , such as Carcharodontosaurus and Spinosaurus .	0
The fossils were stored together in Munich , but were obliterated when an Allied bombing raid destroyed the museum where they were kept in 1944 , during World War II .	Its fossils have been found in Egypt , Niger , and in several different locations in the Sahara Desert .	0
The fossils were stored together in Munich , but were obliterated when an Allied bombing raid destroyed the museum where they were kept in 1944 , during World War II .	All known specimens were discovered before 1939 .	0
The fossils were stored together in Munich , but were obliterated when an Allied bombing raid destroyed the museum where they were kept in 1944 , during World War II .	The fossils were stored together in Munich , but were obliterated when an Allied bombing raid destroyed the museum where they were kept in 1944 , during World War II .	1
The fossils were stored together in Munich , but were obliterated when an Allied bombing raid destroyed the museum where they were kept in 1944 , during World War II .	The type species is Aegyptosaurus baharijensis , named after the Bahariya Formation in Egypt , where the first fossils were found .	0
Aegyptosaurus was described by German paleontologist Ernst Stromer in 1932 .	Aegyptosaurus was a close relative of Argentinosaurus , a much larger dinosaur that lived in South America at about the same time .	0
Aegyptosaurus was described by German paleontologist Ernst Stromer in 1932 .	This suggests a possible land bridge between Africa and South America during the Cretaceous period .	0
Aegyptosaurus was described by German paleontologist Ernst Stromer in 1932 .	Aegyptosaurus was discovered and named by a German paleontologist named Ernst Stromer in 1932 .	1
Aegyptosaurus was described by German paleontologist Ernst Stromer in 1932 .	Its fossils have been found in Egypt , Niger , and in several different locations in the Sahara Desert .	0
According to the tradition in Kerala , after Sankara 's samadhi at Vadakkunnathan Temple his disciples founded four mathas in Thrissur , namely Naduvil Madhom , Thekke Madhom , Idayil Madhom and Vadakke Madhom .	Not all Hindus believe in Advaita Vedanta .	0
According to the tradition in Kerala , after Sankara 's samadhi at Vadakkunnathan Temple his disciples founded four mathas in Thrissur , namely Naduvil Madhom , Thekke Madhom , Idayil Madhom and Vadakke Madhom .	Many others believe there is a difference between a person 's soul and God , just like in many other religions .	0
Aegyptosaurus ( \/ iːˌdʒɪptɵˈsɔrəs \/ ) meaning ` Egypt 's lizard ' , for the country in which it was discovered ( Greek sauros meaning ` lizard ' ) is a genus of sauropod dinosaur believed to have lived in what is now Africa , around 95 million years ago , during the mid - and late-Cretaceous Period ( Albian to Cenomanian stages ) .	Aegyptosaurus , meaning `` Egypt 's Lizard '' after the country where it was discovered ( comes from the Greek word sauros , which means ` lizard ' ) , is a genus of sauropod dinosaur that lived in Africa around 95 million years ago , during the Late Cretaceous period .	1
Aegyptosaurus ( \/ iːˌdʒɪptɵˈsɔrəs \/ ) meaning ` Egypt 's lizard ' , for the country in which it was discovered ( Greek sauros meaning ` lizard ' ) is a genus of sauropod dinosaur believed to have lived in what is now Africa , around 95 million years ago , during the mid - and late-Cretaceous Period ( Albian to Cenomanian stages ) .	Like most sauropods , it had a long neck and a small skull .	0
It is possible that Aegyptosaurus was common prey for large predatory dinosaurs , such as Carcharodontosaurus and Spinosaurus .	Like most sauropods , it had a long neck and a small skull .	0
It is possible that Aegyptosaurus was common prey for large predatory dinosaurs , such as Carcharodontosaurus and Spinosaurus .	The animal 's long tail probably acted as a counterweight to its body mass .	0
It is possible that Aegyptosaurus was common prey for large predatory dinosaurs , such as Carcharodontosaurus and Spinosaurus .	Its tail also ended in a whip-like structure that it used to defend itself against predatory dinosaurs that lived in the same place and time as it , such as Carcharodontosaurus and Spinosaurus .	1
It is possible that Aegyptosaurus was common prey for large predatory dinosaurs , such as Carcharodontosaurus and Spinosaurus .	Aegyptosaurus was a close relative of Argentinosaurus , a much larger dinosaur that lived in South America at about the same time .	0
It is possible that Aegyptosaurus was common prey for large predatory dinosaurs , such as Carcharodontosaurus and Spinosaurus .	The type species is Aegyptosaurus baharijensis , named after the Bahariya Formation in Egypt , where the first fossils were found .	0
Aegyptosaurus was a close relative of Argentinosaurus , a much larger dinosaur found in South America .	The animal 's long tail probably acted as a counterweight to its body mass .	0
Aegyptosaurus was a close relative of Argentinosaurus , a much larger dinosaur found in South America .	Its tail also ended in a whip-like structure that it used to defend itself against predatory dinosaurs that lived in the same place and time as it , such as Carcharodontosaurus and Spinosaurus .	0
Aegyptosaurus was a close relative of Argentinosaurus , a much larger dinosaur found in South America .	Aegyptosaurus was a close relative of Argentinosaurus , a much larger dinosaur that lived in South America at about the same time .	1
Aegyptosaurus was a close relative of Argentinosaurus , a much larger dinosaur found in South America .	This suggests a possible land bridge between Africa and South America during the Cretaceous period .	0
All known examples were discovered before 1939 .	Aegyptosaurus was discovered and named by a German paleontologist named Ernst Stromer in 1932 .	0
All known examples were discovered before 1939 .	Its fossils have been found in Egypt , Niger , and in several different locations in the Sahara Desert .	0
All known examples were discovered before 1939 .	All known specimens were discovered before 1939 .	1
All known examples were discovered before 1939 .	The fossils were stored together in Munich , but were obliterated when an Allied bombing raid destroyed the museum where they were kept in 1944 , during World War II .	0
Its fossils have been found in Egypt , Niger and in several different locations in the Sahara Desert .	This suggests a possible land bridge between Africa and South America during the Cretaceous period .	0
Its fossils have been found in Egypt , Niger and in several different locations in the Sahara Desert .	Aegyptosaurus was discovered and named by a German paleontologist named Ernst Stromer in 1932 .	0
Its fossils have been found in Egypt , Niger and in several different locations in the Sahara Desert .	Its fossils have been found in Egypt , Niger , and in several different locations in the Sahara Desert .	1
Its fossils have been found in Egypt , Niger and in several different locations in the Sahara Desert .	All known specimens were discovered before 1939 .	0
A new military doctrine , promulgated in November 1993 , implicitly acknowledged the contraction of the old Soviet military into a regional military power without global imperial ambitions .	So , Yeltsin appointed himself the Russian minister of defense .	0
A new military doctrine , promulgated in November 1993 , implicitly acknowledged the contraction of the old Soviet military into a regional military power without global imperial ambitions .	Eventually , CIS helped Russia get it 's defense into shape .	0
A new military doctrine , promulgated in November 1993 , implicitly acknowledged the contraction of the old Soviet military into a regional military power without global imperial ambitions .	Then in 1993 , a doctrine was made to set up the official military .	1
A new military doctrine , promulgated in November 1993 , implicitly acknowledged the contraction of the old Soviet military into a regional military power without global imperial ambitions .	As of 2008 , 480,000 men joined the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation .	0
African elephants are highly intelligent , and they have a very large and highly convoluted neocortex , a trait also shared by humans , apes and certain dolphin species .	Human encroachment into or adjacent to natural areas where bush elephants occur has led to recent research into methods of safely driving groups of elephants away from humans , including the discovery that playback of the recorded sounds of angry honey bees are remarkably effective at prompting elephants to flee an area .	0
African elephants are highly intelligent , and they have a very large and highly convoluted neocortex , a trait also shared by humans , apes and certain dolphin species .	Some elephant communities have grown so large , in Africa , that some communities have resulted to culling large amounts to help sustain the ecosystem .	0
African elephants are highly intelligent , and they have a very large and highly convoluted neocortex , a trait also shared by humans , apes and certain dolphin species .	All in all African elephants are some of the smartest land animales in the world .	1
They are amongst the world 's most intelligent species .	African elephants are the two species of elephants in the genus Loxodonta , one of the two existing genera in Elephantidae .	0
Males stand 3.2-4 .0 m ( 10-13 ft ) tall at the shoulder and weigh 4,700-6 ,048 kg ( 10,000-13 ,330 lb ) , while females stand 2.2-2 .6 m ( 7.2-8 .5 ft ) tall and weigh 2,160-3 ,232 kg ( 4,800-7 ,130 lb ) .	An anonymous author romanized the spelling to Loxodonta and the ICZN recognizes this as the proper authority .	0
Males stand 3.2-4 .0 m ( 10-13 ft ) tall at the shoulder and weigh 4,700-6 ,048 kg ( 10,000-13 ,330 lb ) , while females stand 2.2-2 .6 m ( 7.2-8 .5 ft ) tall and weigh 2,160-3 ,232 kg ( 4,800-7 ,130 lb ) .	Fossil Loxodonta have only been found in Africa , where they developed in the middle Pliocene .	0
Males stand 3.2-4 .0 m ( 10-13 ft ) tall at the shoulder and weigh 4,700-6 ,048 kg ( 10,000-13 ,330 lb ) , while females stand 2.2-2 .6 m ( 7.2-8 .5 ft ) tall and weigh 2,160-3 ,232 kg ( 4,800-7 ,130 lb ) .	Males stand 3.64 meters ( 12 feet ) tall at the shoulder and weigh 5455 kg ( 12,000 lbs ) , while females stand 3 meters ( 10 feet ) and weigh 3636 kg to 4545 kg ( 8,000 to 10,000 lbs ) .	1
Males stand 3.2-4 .0 m ( 10-13 ft ) tall at the shoulder and weigh 4,700-6 ,048 kg ( 10,000-13 ,330 lb ) , while females stand 2.2-2 .6 m ( 7.2-8 .5 ft ) tall and weigh 2,160-3 ,232 kg ( 4,800-7 ,130 lb ) .	The largest bulls will weigh 24,000 pounds ( 12 tons ) and stand a little over ( 13 feet ) at the shoulder .	0
The largest individual recorded stood four metres to the shoulders and weighed ten tonnes .	Fossil Loxodonta have only been found in Africa , where they developed in the middle Pliocene .	0
The largest individual recorded stood four metres to the shoulders and weighed ten tonnes .	Males stand 3.64 meters ( 12 feet ) tall at the shoulder and weigh 5455 kg ( 12,000 lbs ) , while females stand 3 meters ( 10 feet ) and weigh 3636 kg to 4545 kg ( 8,000 to 10,000 lbs ) .	0
The largest individual recorded stood four metres to the shoulders and weighed ten tonnes .	The largest bulls will weigh 24,000 pounds ( 12 tons ) and stand a little over ( 13 feet ) at the shoulder .	1
The largest individual recorded stood four metres to the shoulders and weighed ten tonnes .	Elephants have four molars , each weighs about 11 lbs and measures about 12 inches long .	0
The tusks weigh from 23-45 kg ( 51-99 lb ) and can be from 1.5-2 .4 m ( 5-8 ft ) long .	Their tusks are teeth , the second set of incisors become the tusks .	0
The tusks weigh from 23-45 kg ( 51-99 lb ) and can be from 1.5-2 .4 m ( 5-8 ft ) long .	They are used for digging for roots and stripping the bark off trees for food , and , fighting each other during mating season , or defending themselves against predators .	0
The tusks weigh from 23-45 kg ( 51-99 lb ) and can be from 1.5-2 .4 m ( 5-8 ft ) long .	They weigh from 50-100 pounds and can be from can be from 5 to 8 feet long .	1
The tusks weigh from 23-45 kg ( 51-99 lb ) and can be from 1.5-2 .4 m ( 5-8 ft ) long .	Both bulls and cows have tusks .	0
Elephants have four molars ; each weighs about 5 kg ( 11 lb ) and measures about 30 cm ( 12 in ) long .	Males stand 3.64 meters ( 12 feet ) tall at the shoulder and weigh 5455 kg ( 12,000 lbs ) , while females stand 3 meters ( 10 feet ) and weigh 3636 kg to 4545 kg ( 8,000 to 10,000 lbs ) .	0
Elephants have four molars ; each weighs about 5 kg ( 11 lb ) and measures about 30 cm ( 12 in ) long .	The largest bulls will weigh 24,000 pounds ( 12 tons ) and stand a little over ( 13 feet ) at the shoulder .	0
Elephants have four molars ; each weighs about 5 kg ( 11 lb ) and measures about 30 cm ( 12 in ) long .	Elephants have four molars , each weighs about 11 lbs and measures about 12 inches long .	1
Elephants have four molars ; each weighs about 5 kg ( 11 lb ) and measures about 30 cm ( 12 in ) long .	The front pair wear down and drop out in pieces as the Two new molars emerge in the back of the mouth and the old molars shift forward .	0
Unlike Asian elephants , both male and female African elephants have tusks .	They are used for digging for roots and stripping the bark off trees for food , and , fighting each other during mating season , or defending themselves against predators .	0
Unlike Asian elephants , both male and female African elephants have tusks .	They weigh from 50-100 pounds and can be from can be from 5 to 8 feet long .	0
Unlike Asian elephants , both male and female African elephants have tusks .	Both bulls and cows have tusks .	1
Unlike Asian elephants , both male and female African elephants have tusks .	.	0
Their tusks are firm teeth ; the second set of incisors become the tusks .	Elephants replace their teeth six times .	0
Their tusks are firm teeth ; the second set of incisors become the tusks .	At about 40 to 60 years of age the elephant no longer has teeth and will likely die of starvation , a common cause of death .	0
Their tusks are firm teeth ; the second set of incisors become the tusks .	Their tusks are teeth , the second set of incisors become the tusks .	1
Their tusks are firm teeth ; the second set of incisors become the tusks .	They are used for digging for roots and stripping the bark off trees for food , and , fighting each other during mating season , or defending themselves against predators .	0
An anonymous author romanized the spelling to Loxodonta and the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature ( ICZN ) recognizes this as the proper authority .	African elephants are the two species of elephants in the genus Loxodonta , one of the two existing genera in Elephantidae .	0
An anonymous author romanized the spelling to Loxodonta and the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature ( ICZN ) recognizes this as the proper authority .	Although it is commonly believed that the genus was named by Georges Cuvier in 1825 , Cuvier spelled it Loxodonte .	0
An anonymous author romanized the spelling to Loxodonta and the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature ( ICZN ) recognizes this as the proper authority .	An anonymous author romanized the spelling to Loxodonta and the ICZN recognizes this as the proper authority .	1
An anonymous author romanized the spelling to Loxodonta and the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature ( ICZN ) recognizes this as the proper authority .	Fossil Loxodonta have only been found in Africa , where they developed in the middle Pliocene .	0
Elephants replace their teeth six times .	The front pair wear down and drop out in pieces as the Two new molars emerge in the back of the mouth and the old molars shift forward .	0
Elephants replace their teeth six times .	to replace those that dropped out .	0
Elephants replace their teeth six times .	Elephants replace their teeth six times .	1
Elephants replace their teeth six times .	At about 40 to 60 years of age the elephant no longer has teeth and will likely die of starvation , a common cause of death .	0
They are used for digging for roots and stripping the bark off trees for food , for fighting each other during mating season , and for defending themselves against predators .	At about 40 to 60 years of age the elephant no longer has teeth and will likely die of starvation , a common cause of death .	0
They are used for digging for roots and stripping the bark off trees for food , for fighting each other during mating season , and for defending themselves against predators .	Their tusks are teeth , the second set of incisors become the tusks .	0
They are used for digging for roots and stripping the bark off trees for food , for fighting each other during mating season , and for defending themselves against predators .	They are used for digging for roots and stripping the bark off trees for food , and , fighting each other during mating season , or defending themselves against predators .	1
They are used for digging for roots and stripping the bark off trees for food , for fighting each other during mating season , and for defending themselves against predators .	They weigh from 50-100 pounds and can be from can be from 5 to 8 feet long .	0
Fossil members of Loxodonta have only been found in Africa , where they developed in the middle Pliocene .	Although it is commonly believed that the genus was named by Georges Cuvier in 1825 , Cuvier spelled it Loxodonte .	0
Fossil members of Loxodonta have only been found in Africa , where they developed in the middle Pliocene .	An anonymous author romanized the spelling to Loxodonta and the ICZN recognizes this as the proper authority .	0
Fossil members of Loxodonta have only been found in Africa , where they developed in the middle Pliocene .	Fossil Loxodonta have only been found in Africa , where they developed in the middle Pliocene .	1
Fossil members of Loxodonta have only been found in Africa , where they developed in the middle Pliocene .	Males stand 3.64 meters ( 12 feet ) tall at the shoulder and weigh 5455 kg ( 12,000 lbs ) , while females stand 3 meters ( 10 feet ) and weigh 3636 kg to 4545 kg ( 8,000 to 10,000 lbs ) .	0
Holozoa African elephants are the elephants of the genus Loxodonta ( Greek for ` oblique-sided tooth ' ) , consisting of two extant species , the African bush elephant and the smaller African forest elephant .	Some elephant communities have grown so large , in Africa , that some communities have resulted to culling large amounts to help sustain the ecosystem .	0
Holozoa African elephants are the elephants of the genus Loxodonta ( Greek for ` oblique-sided tooth ' ) , consisting of two extant species , the African bush elephant and the smaller African forest elephant .	All in all African elephants are some of the smartest land animales in the world .	0
Loxodonta is one of the two existing genera in the family Elephantidae .	African elephants are the two species of elephants in the genus Loxodonta , one of the two existing genera in Elephantidae .	1
Loxodonta is one of the two existing genera in the family Elephantidae .	Although it is commonly believed that the genus was named by Georges Cuvier in 1825 , Cuvier spelled it Loxodonte .	0
They are amongst the world 's most intelligent species .	Human encroachment into or adjacent to natural areas where bush elephants occur has led to recent research into methods of safely driving groups of elephants away from humans , including the discovery that playback of the recorded sounds of angry honey bees are remarkably effective at prompting elephants to flee an area .	0
They are amongst the world 's most intelligent species .	Some elephant communities have grown so large , in Africa , that some communities have resulted to culling large amounts to help sustain the ecosystem .	0
They are amongst the world 's most intelligent species .	All in all African elephants are some of the smartest land animales in the world .	1
With a mass of just over 5 kg ( 11 lb ) , elephant brains are larger than those of any other land animal , and although the largest whales have body masses twenty-fold those of a typical elephant , whale brains are barely twice the mass of an elephant 's brain .	African elephants are the two species of elephants in the genus Loxodonta , one of the two existing genera in Elephantidae .	0
As the front pair wears down and drops out in pieces , the back pair shifts forward , and two new molars emerge in the back of the mouth .	The largest bulls will weigh 24,000 pounds ( 12 tons ) and stand a little over ( 13 feet ) at the shoulder .	0
As the front pair wears down and drops out in pieces , the back pair shifts forward , and two new molars emerge in the back of the mouth .	Elephants have four molars , each weighs about 11 lbs and measures about 12 inches long .	0
As the front pair wears down and drops out in pieces , the back pair shifts forward , and two new molars emerge in the back of the mouth .	The front pair wear down and drop out in pieces as the Two new molars emerge in the back of the mouth and the old molars shift forward .	1
As the front pair wears down and drops out in pieces , the back pair shifts forward , and two new molars emerge in the back of the mouth .	to replace those that dropped out .	0
To the mass media and general public , engineering is often a synonym for science but that is technically incorrect usage .	Technicians ( those who repair and construct vehicles ) will do a shorter course and ` on the job ' training .	0
To the mass media and general public , engineering is often a synonym for science but that is technically incorrect usage .	Aerospace jobs include astronauts , pilots , and other professionals .	0
Holozoa African elephants are the elephants of the genus Loxodonta ( Greek for ` oblique-sided tooth ' ) , consisting of two extant species , the African bush elephant and the smaller African forest elephant .	African elephants are the two species of elephants in the genus Loxodonta , one of the two existing genera in Elephantidae .	1
Holozoa African elephants are the elephants of the genus Loxodonta ( Greek for ` oblique-sided tooth ' ) , consisting of two extant species , the African bush elephant and the smaller African forest elephant .	Although it is commonly believed that the genus was named by Georges Cuvier in 1825 , Cuvier spelled it Loxodonte .	0
Holozoa African elephants are the elephants of the genus Loxodonta ( Greek for ` oblique-sided tooth ' ) , consisting of two extant species , the African bush elephant and the smaller African forest elephant .	.	0
Holozoa African elephants are the elephants of the genus Loxodonta ( Greek for ` oblique-sided tooth ' ) , consisting of two extant species , the African bush elephant and the smaller African forest elephant .	Loxodonta adaurora , extinct , presumed antecedent of the modern African elephants .	0
Holozoa African elephants are the elephants of the genus Loxodonta ( Greek for ` oblique-sided tooth ' ) , consisting of two extant species , the African bush elephant and the smaller African forest elephant .	African Bush Elephant ( Loxodonta africana ) .	1
Holozoa African elephants are the elephants of the genus Loxodonta ( Greek for ` oblique-sided tooth ' ) , consisting of two extant species , the African bush elephant and the smaller African forest elephant .	African Forest Elephant ( Loxodonta cyclotis ) .	1
Holozoa African elephants are the elephants of the genus Loxodonta ( Greek for ` oblique-sided tooth ' ) , consisting of two extant species , the African bush elephant and the smaller African forest elephant .	Bush and Forest Elephants were formerly considered subspecies of the same species Loxodonta africana .	0
In the medieval Europe he was created a member of the Nine Worthies , a group of heroes who encapsulated all the ideal qualities of chivalry .	Nobody knows the cause of Alexander 's death .	0
In the medieval Europe he was created a member of the Nine Worthies , a group of heroes who encapsulated all the ideal qualities of chivalry .	Some people have said his death was caused by poison in wine , murder or a fever after a battle .	0
All For Latvia !	All For Latvia !	1
All For Latvia !	( Latvian : Visu Latvijai ! )	0
All For Latvia !	is a national conservative political party in Latvia .	0
All For Latvia !	started as a political youth organization in 2000 and became a political party in January 2006 , running in 2006 elections .	0
All For Latvia !	It won 1.48 % of vote and no seats in the parliament .	0
All For Latvia !	Its leaders are Raivis Dzintars and Imants Parādnieks .	0
All For Latvia !	supports making Latvian citizenship laws more restrictive for non-citizens .	0
All For Latvia !	The party is opposed to European federalism .	0
( Latvian : Visu Latvijai ! )	All For Latvia !	0
( Latvian : Visu Latvijai ! )	( Latvian : Visu Latvijai ! )	1
( Latvian : Visu Latvijai ! )	is a national conservative political party in Latvia .	0
was a nationalist political party in Latvia .	All For Latvia !	0
was a nationalist political party in Latvia .	( Latvian : Visu Latvijai ! )	0
was a nationalist political party in Latvia .	is a national conservative political party in Latvia .	1
At the 1988 Seoul Games , he won two gold medals in the Men 's 4x100 m Relay A2A4-7 and Men 's 4x400 m Relay A2A4-7 events , and three silver medals in the Men 's 100 m A4A9 , Men 's 200 m A4A9 , and Men 's 400 m A4A9 events .	Adrian Lowe is an Australian athlete with a disability .	0
At the 1988 Seoul Games , he won two gold medals in the Men 's 4x100 m Relay A2A4-7 and Men 's 4x400 m Relay A2A4-7 events , and three silver medals in the Men 's 100 m A4A9 , Men 's 200 m A4A9 , and Men 's 400 m A4A9 events .	He competes in a wheelchair .	0
At the 1988 Seoul Games , he won two gold medals in the Men 's 4x100 m Relay A2A4-7 and Men 's 4x400 m Relay A2A4-7 events , and three silver medals in the Men 's 100 m A4A9 , Men 's 200 m A4A9 , and Men 's 400 m A4A9 events .	At the 1988 Summer Paralympics , He won two gold medals in the Men 's 4x100 m Relay A2A4-7 and the Men 's 4x400 m Relay A2A4-7 races , and three silver medals in the Men 's 100 m A4A9 , Men 's 200 m A4A9 , and the Men 's 400 m A4A9 races .	1
Other major sub-schools of Vedānta are Viśishṭādvaita and Dvaita ; while the minor ones include Suddhadvaita , Dvaitadvaita and Achintya Bhedabheda .	Advaita Vedanta is a type of Hinduism .	0
37 .	He was very good at playing widely spaced arpeggios and could make them sound very smooth ( legato ) even if he was not using the pedal .	0
37 .	As a composer he is mostly remembered today for a few of his short works which are often quite sentimental , e.g. Frühlingslied ( Spring Song ) and Si oiseau j' étais ( If I were a bird ) .	0
Adrian Lowe is an Australian Paralympic athlete .	Adrian Lowe is an Australian athlete with a disability .	1
Adrian Lowe is an Australian Paralympic athlete .	He competes in a wheelchair .	0
Each year , Arovell publishes between ten and twenty new books .	It has been founded in 1991 by the Austrian writer , artist and musician Paul Jaeg .	0
Each year , Arovell publishes between ten and twenty new books .	Today , Jaeg is still the director .	0
Each year , Arovell publishes between ten and twenty new books .	Each year , Arovell prints between ten and twenty new books .	1
Orchestration differs in that it is only adapting music for an orchestra or musical ensemble while arranging `` involves adding compositional techniques , such as new thematic material for introductions , transitions , or modulations , and endings ... Arranging is the art of giving an existing melody musical variety '' ( ibid ) .	Cyril Smith , a pianist who only had one arm , played piano duets with his wife Phyllis Sellick .	0
Today , Jaeg is still the directing proprietor , while Thomas Gamsjäger is CEO .	Arovell Verlag is an Austrian publishing house for modern literature .	0
Today , Jaeg is still the directing proprietor , while Thomas Gamsjäger is CEO .	It has been founded in 1991 by the Austrian writer , artist and musician Paul Jaeg .	0
Today , Jaeg is still the directing proprietor , while Thomas Gamsjäger is CEO .	Today , Jaeg is still the director .	1
Today , Jaeg is still the directing proprietor , while Thomas Gamsjäger is CEO .	Each year , Arovell prints between ten and twenty new books .	0
